files/en-us/web/api/atob/index.md, before:

---
title: atob() global function
short-title: atob()
slug: Web/API/atob
page-type: web-api-global-function
browser-compat: api.atob
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

The **`atob()`** function decodes a
string of data which has been encoded using {{glossary("Base64")}} encoding. You can use
the {{domxref("btoa","btoa()")}} method to encode and transmit
data which may otherwise cause communication problems, then transmit it and use the
`atob()` method to decode the data again. For example, you can encode,
transmit, and decode control characters such as ASCII values 0 through 31.

For use with Unicode or UTF-8 strings, see the note on "Unicode strings" in the page
for {{domxref("btoa", "btoa()")}}.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
atob(encodedData)
```

### Parameters

- `encodedData`
  - : A binary string (i.e., a string in which each character in the string is treated as a byte of binary data) containing base64-encoded data.

### Return value

An ASCII string containing decoded data from `encodedData`.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidCharacterError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if `encodedData` is not valid base64.

## Examples

```js
const encodedData = btoa("Hello, world"); // encode a string
const decodedData = atob(encodedData); // decode the string
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [A polyfill of `atob`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#base64-utility-methods) is available in [`core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)
- [`data` URLs](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URLs)
- {{domxref("btoa","btoa()")}}

Commit message:

Update info about Base64 and Unicode (#25253)
* Update info about Base64 and Unicode

- Fix wording — the problem with `btoa` has nothing to do with UTF-16 — it's because it's capped at codepoint 0xff. UTF-16 only starts causing problems after codepoint 0xffff
- Add much simpler UTF-8 Base64 functions based on `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder`
- Rearrange solutions in order of usefulness. Tbh I'm not sure it's even worth including the  "encode first" solutions, as they aren't standard Base64 and wouldn't be interoperable with systems that expect Base64... but I've left them there for now

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

* Fix heading level, variable naming, more wording issues, etc

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

* Remove less relevant info and clean up

* Add/clarify info about b64 algorithm; clean up code; add section Converting arbitrary binary data

* Implement code review suggestions; better native solution for data URLs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

* More copy edits

---------

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/api/atob/index.md, after:

---
title: atob() global function
short-title: atob()
slug: Web/API/atob
page-type: web-api-global-function
browser-compat: api.atob
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

The **`atob()`** function decodes a
string of data which has been encoded using {{glossary("Base64")}} encoding. You can use
the {{domxref("btoa","btoa()")}} method to encode and transmit
data which may otherwise cause communication problems, then transmit it and use the
`atob()` method to decode the data again. For example, you can encode,
transmit, and decode control characters such as ASCII values 0 through 31.

For use with arbitrary Unicode strings, see [The "Unicode Problem"](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64#the_unicode_problem) section of the {{Glossary("Base64")}} glossary entry.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
atob(encodedData)
```

### Parameters

- `encodedData`
  - : A binary string (i.e., a string in which each character in the string is treated as a byte of binary data) containing base64-encoded data.

### Return value

An ASCII string containing decoded data from `encodedData`.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidCharacterError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if `encodedData` is not valid base64.

## Examples

```js
const encodedData = btoa("Hello, world"); // encode a string
const decodedData = atob(encodedData); // decode the string
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [A polyfill of `atob`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#base64-utility-methods) is available in [`core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)
- [`data` URLs](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URLs)
- {{domxref("btoa","btoa()")}}
