files/en-us/web/http/headers/cross-origin-embedder-policy/index.md, before:

---
title: Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
tags:
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Response Header
  - header
browser-compat: http.headers.Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The HTTP **`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy`** (COEP) response header prevents a document from loading any cross-origin resources that don't explicitly grant the document permission (using [CORP](</en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cross-Origin_Resource_Policy_(CORP)>) or [CORS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)).

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>no</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: unsafe-none | require-corp
```

### Directives

- `unsafe-none`
  - : This is the default value. Allows the document to fetch cross-origin resources without giving explicit permission through the CORS protocol or the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy")}} header.
- `require-corp`
  - : A document can only load resources from the same origin, or resources explicitly marked as loadable from another origin.
    If a cross origin resource supports CORS, the [`crossorigin`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin) attribute or the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy")}} header must be used to load it without being blocked by COEP.

## Examples

### Certain features depend on cross-origin isolation

You can only access certain features like {{jsxref("SharedArrayBuffer")}} objects or {{domxref("Performance.now()")}} with unthrottled timers, if your document has a COEP header with the value `require-corp` value set.

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
```

See also the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} header which you'll need to set as well.

To check if cross origin isolation has been successful, you can test against the [`crossOriginIsolated`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/crossOriginIsolated) property available to window and worker contexts:

```js
const myWorker = new Worker('worker.js');

if (crossOriginIsolated) {
  const buffer = new SharedArrayBuffer(16);
  myWorker.postMessage(buffer);
} else {
  const buffer = new ArrayBuffer(16);
  myWorker.postMessage(buffer);
}
```

### Avoiding COEP blockage with CORS

If you enable COEP using `require-corp` and have a cross origin resource that needs to be loaded, it needs to support [CORS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) and you need to explicitly mark the resource as loadable from another origin to avoid blockage from COEP. For example, you can use the [`crossorigin`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin) attribute for this image from a third-party site:

```html
<img src="https://thirdparty.com/img.png" crossorigin />
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{httpheader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}}

Commit message:

Document COEP:credentialless (#23344)
* Document COEP:credentialless

This PR adds documentation for `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy`:
`credentialless` value.

This is part of the HTML specification + FETCH.
It is implemented by:
- Chrome: 96.
- Firefox: Nightly + origin trial.

In a follow-up, I am also going to fix the Iframe.credentialless
documentation, and I need refer to COEP:credentialless.

Chrome status:
- https://chromestatus.com/feature/4918234241302528

Firefox status:
- https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1731778

Past PR about COEP:
- https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/8871
- https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/23097
- https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/23275

* Update files/en-us/web/http/headers/cross-origin-embedder-policy/index.md

Co-authored-by: Chris Mills <chrisdavidmills@gmail.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/http/headers/cross-origin-embedder-policy/index.md

Co-authored-by: Chris Mills <chrisdavidmills@gmail.com>

* Address Chris #2 comment.

* Address @Elchi3 suggestions.

Co-authored-by: Chris Mills <chrisdavidmills@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/http/headers/cross-origin-embedder-policy/index.md, after:

---
title: Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
tags:
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Response Header
  - header
browser-compat: http.headers.Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The HTTP **`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy`** (COEP) response header configures
embedding cross-origin resources into the document.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>no</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: unsafe-none | require-corp | credentialless
```

### Directives

- `unsafe-none`
  - : This is the default value. Allows the document to fetch cross-origin resources without giving explicit permission through the CORS protocol or the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy")}} header.
- `require-corp`
  - : A document can only load resources from the same origin, or resources explicitly marked as loadable from another origin.
    If a cross origin resource supports CORS, the [`crossorigin`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin) attribute or the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy")}} header must be used to load it without being blocked by COEP.
- `credentialless`
  - : [no-cors](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request/mode) cross-origin requests are sent without credentials. In particular, it means Cookies are omitted from the request, and ignored from the response. The responses are allowed **without** an explicit permission via the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy")}} header. [Navigate](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request/mode) responses behave similarly as the `require-corp` mode: They require {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy")}} response header.

## Examples

### Certain features depend on cross-origin isolation

You can only access certain features like {{jsxref("SharedArrayBuffer")}} objects or {{domxref("Performance.now()")}} with unthrottled timers, if your document has a COEP header with a value of `require-corp` or `credentialless` set.

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
```

See also the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} header which you'll need to set as well.

To check if cross origin isolation has been successful, you can test against the [`crossOriginIsolated`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/crossOriginIsolated) property available to window and worker contexts:

```js
const myWorker = new Worker('worker.js');

if (crossOriginIsolated) {
  const buffer = new SharedArrayBuffer(16);
  myWorker.postMessage(buffer);
} else {
  const buffer = new ArrayBuffer(16);
  myWorker.postMessage(buffer);
}
```

### Avoiding COEP blockage with CORS

If you enable COEP using `require-corp` and have a cross origin resource that needs to be loaded, it needs to support [CORS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) and you need to explicitly mark the resource as loadable from another origin to avoid blockage from COEP. For example, you can use the [`crossorigin`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin) attribute for this image from a third-party site:

```html
<img src="https://thirdparty.com/img.png" crossorigin />
```

If CORS is not supported for some images, a COEP value of `credentialless` can be used as an alternative to load the image without any explicit opt-in from the cross-origin server, at the cost of requesting it without cookies.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{httpheader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}}
