files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/locale/basename/index.md, before:

---
title: Intl.Locale.prototype.baseName
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/baseName
page-type: javascript-instance-accessor-property
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Intl.Locale.baseName
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Intl.Locale.prototype.baseName`** property returns a substring of the `Locale`'s string representation, containing core information about the `Locale`.

## Description

An {{jsxref("Intl/Locale", "Intl.Locale")}} object represents a parsed local and options for that locale. The `baseName` property returns basic, core information about the Locale in the form of a substring of the complete data string. Specifically, the property returns the substring containing the language, and the script and region if available.

`baseName` returns the `language ["-" script] ["-" region] *("-" variant)` subsequence of the [unicode_language_id grammar](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/#Identifiers).

## Examples

### Basic Example

```js
const myLoc = new Intl.Locale("fr-Latn-CA"); // Sets locale to Canadian French
console.log(myLoc.toString()); // Prints out "fr-Latn-CA-u-ca-gregory"
console.log(myLoc.baseName); // Prints out "fr-Latn-CA"
```

### Example with options in the input string

```js
// Sets language to Japanese, region to Japan,

// calendar to Gregorian, hour cycle to 24 hours
const japan = new Intl.Locale("ja-JP-u-ca-gregory-hc-24");
console.log(japan.toString()); // Prints out "ja-JP-u-ca-gregory-hc-h24"
console.log(japan.baseName); // Prints out "ja-JP"
```

### Example with options that override input string

```js
// Input string indicates language as Dutch and region as Belgium,

// but options object overrides the region and sets it to the Netherlands
const dutch = new Intl.Locale("nl-Latn-BE", { region: "NL" });

console.log(dutch.baseName); // Prints out "nl-Latn-NL"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Intl.Locale")}}

Commit message:

Align description of all instance accessor properties (#26105)
* Align description of all instance accessor properties

* Some more

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/locale/basename/index.md, after:

---
title: Intl.Locale.prototype.baseName
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/baseName
page-type: javascript-instance-accessor-property
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Intl.Locale.baseName
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`baseName`** accessor property of {{jsxref("Intl.Locale")}} instances returns a substring of this locale's string representation, containing core information about this locale.

## Description

An {{jsxref("Intl/Locale", "Intl.Locale")}} object represents a parsed local and options for that locale. The `baseName` property returns basic, core information about the Locale in the form of a substring of the complete data string. Specifically, the property returns the substring containing the language, and the script and region if available.

`baseName` returns the `language ["-" script] ["-" region] *("-" variant)` subsequence of the [unicode_language_id grammar](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/#Identifiers).

## Examples

### Basic Example

```js
const myLoc = new Intl.Locale("fr-Latn-CA"); // Sets locale to Canadian French
console.log(myLoc.toString()); // Prints out "fr-Latn-CA-u-ca-gregory"
console.log(myLoc.baseName); // Prints out "fr-Latn-CA"
```

### Example with options in the input string

```js
// Sets language to Japanese, region to Japan,

// calendar to Gregorian, hour cycle to 24 hours
const japan = new Intl.Locale("ja-JP-u-ca-gregory-hc-24");
console.log(japan.toString()); // Prints out "ja-JP-u-ca-gregory-hc-h24"
console.log(japan.baseName); // Prints out "ja-JP"
```

### Example with options that override input string

```js
// Input string indicates language as Dutch and region as Belgium,

// but options object overrides the region and sets it to the Netherlands
const dutch = new Intl.Locale("nl-Latn-BE", { region: "NL" });

console.log(dutch.baseName); // Prints out "nl-Latn-NL"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Intl.Locale")}}
