files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/locale/collations/index.md, before:

---
title: Intl.Locale.prototype.collations
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/collations
tags:
  - Internationalization
  - Intl
  - JavaScript
  - Property
  - Locale
  - Localization
  - Prototype
  - Reference
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Intl.Locale.collations
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Intl.Locale.prototype.collations`** property is an accessor property that returns an array of one or more [collation types](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-collation.html#CLDR_collation) for the `Locale`.

## Description

Collation is the process of ordering strings of characters. It is used whenever strings must be sorted and placed into a certain order, from search query results to ordering records in a database. While the idea of placing strings in order might seem trivial, the idea of order can vary from region to region and language to language. The array returned by `collations` helps to make it easier for JavaScript programmers to access the collation types used by a particular locale.

Below is a table with the available collation types, adapted from the [Unicode collation specification](https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr/blob/2dd06669d833823e26872f249aa304bc9d9d2a90/common/bcp47/collation.xml).

- `big5han`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, big5 charset ordering for CJK characters (for Chinese)
    > **Note:** The `big5han` collations type is deprecated, not available in Chrome or Edge, and on the way to be removed in Firefox ([bug 1630920](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1630920)).
- `compat`
  - : A previous version of the ordering, for compatibility (for Arabic)
- `dict`
  - : Dictionary style ordering (for Sinhala)
- `direct`
  - : Binary code point order
    > **Warning:** The `direct` collation type has been deprecated. Do not use.
- `ducet`
  - : The default Unicode collation element table order
    > **Warning:** The `ducet` collation type is not available to the Web. Use the `und` locale without a collation type specifier instead. `und` is the collation that is the closest to `ducet`.
- `emoji`
  - : Recommended ordering for emoji characters (for the `und` locale)
- `eor`
  - : European ordering rules (for the `und` locale)
- `gb2312`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, gb2312han charset ordering for CJK characters (for Chinese)
    > **Note:** The `gb2312` collation type is deprecated, not available in Chrome or Edge, and on the way to be removed in Firefox ([bug 1630920](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1630920)).
- `phonebk`
  - : Phonebook style ordering (for German)
- `phonetic`
  - : Phonetic ordering (sorting based on pronunciation; for Lingala)
- `pinyin`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin and for CJK characters (for Chinese)
- `reformed`
  - : Reformed ordering (for Swedish)
    > **Note:** This is the default ordering for Swedish whose collation naming is unusual as of May 2022. Since this is the default, request `sv` instead of requesting `sv-u-co-reformed`.
- `search`
  - : Special collation type for string search
    > **Warning:** Do not use. In [`Intl.Collator`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Collator), this collation is activated via the `search` value for the `usage` option. Furthermore, there is currently no API for actually using the collator for search.
- `searchjl`
  - : Special collation type for Korean initial consonant search
- `standard`
  - : Default ordering for each language, except Chinese and, as of May 2022, Swedish
    > **Warning:** Do not use explicitly. In general, it's unnecessary to specify this explicitly and specifying this for Swedish is problematic in case the naming of the Swedish collations is changed to be consistent with other languages in the future.
- `stroke`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, stroke order for CJK characters (for Chinese)
- `trad`
  - : Traditional style ordering (such as in Spanish)
- `unihan`
  - : Radical-stroke ordering for Han characters (for Chinese, Japanese, and Korean). Pinyin ordering for Latin in the case of Chinese.
    > **Note:** The `unihan` collation type is not available in Chrome or Edge.
- `zhuyin`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, zhuyin order for Bopomofo and CJK characters (for Chinese)

## Examples

Like other locale subtags, the collation type can be added to the {{jsxref("Intl/Locale", "Intl.Locale")}} object via the locale string, or a configuration object argument to the constructor.

### Adding a collation type via the locale string

In the [Unicode locale string spec](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/), collation types are locale key "extension subtags". These subtags add additional data about the locale, and are added to locale identifiers by using the `-u` extension. Thus, the collation type can be added to the initial locale identifier string that is passed into the {{jsxref("Intl/Locale/Locale", "Intl.Locale()")}} constructor. To add the collation type, first add the `-u` extension to the string. Next, add the `-co` extension to indicate that you are adding a collation type. Finally, add the collation to the string.

```js
const locale = new Intl.Locale("zh-Hant-u-co-zhuyin");
console.log(locale.collations); // ["zhuyin"]
```

### Adding a collation type via the configuration object argument

The {{jsxref("Intl/Locale/Locale", "Intl.Locale()")}} constructor has an optional configuration object argument, which can contain any of several extension types, including collations types. Set the `collations` property of the configuration object to your desired collations type, and then pass it into the constructor.

```js
const locale = new Intl.Locale("zh-Hant", { collations: "zhuyin" });
console.log(locale.collations); // ["zhuyin"]
```

### Obtaining supported collation types

List supported `collation` types for a given `Locale`.

```js
const locale = new Intl.Locale("zh")
console.log(locale.collations); // ["pinyin", "stroke", "zhuyin", "emoji", "eor"]
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Intl.Locale")}}

Commit message:

Deduplicate Intl.Locale info supported value types information (#23139)

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/locale/collations/index.md, after:

---
title: Intl.Locale.prototype.collations
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/collations
tags:
  - Internationalization
  - Intl
  - JavaScript
  - Property
  - Locale
  - Localization
  - Prototype
  - Reference
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Intl.Locale.collations
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Intl.Locale.prototype.collations`** accessor property returns a list of one or more [collation types](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-collation.html#CLDR_collation) for the `Locale`.

## Description

Collation is the process of ordering strings of characters. It is used whenever strings must be sorted and placed into a certain order, from search query results to ordering records in a database. While the idea of placing strings in order might seem trivial, the idea of order can vary from region to region and language to language. The `collations` property returns an array of all collation types commonly used for the `Locale`, sorted in alphabetical order, with the `standard` and `search` values always excluded. If the `Locale` already has a [`collation`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/collation), then the returned array contains that single value.

Below is a list of the supported collation types, adapted from the [Unicode collation specification](https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr/blob/2dd06669d833823e26872f249aa304bc9d9d2a90/common/bcp47/collation.xml).

### Supported collation types

- `big5han`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, big5 charset ordering for CJK characters (for Chinese)
    > **Note:** The `big5han` collations type is deprecated, not available in Chrome or Edge, and on the way to be removed in Firefox ([bug 1630920](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1630920)).
- `compat`
  - : A previous version of the ordering, for compatibility (for Arabic)
- `dict`
  - : Dictionary style ordering (for Sinhala)
- `direct`
  - : Binary code point order
    > **Warning:** The `direct` collation type has been deprecated. Do not use.
- `ducet`
  - : The default Unicode collation element table order
    > **Warning:** The `ducet` collation type is not available to the Web. Use the `und` locale without a collation type specifier instead. `und` is the collation that is the closest to `ducet`.
- `emoji`
  - : Recommended ordering for emoji characters (for the `und` locale)
- `eor`
  - : European ordering rules (for the `und` locale)
- `gb2312`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, gb2312han charset ordering for CJK characters (for Chinese)
    > **Note:** The `gb2312` collation type is deprecated, not available in Chrome or Edge, and on the way to be removed in Firefox ([bug 1630920](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1630920)).
- `phonebk`
  - : Phonebook style ordering (for German)
- `phonetic`
  - : Phonetic ordering (sorting based on pronunciation; for Lingala)
- `pinyin`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin and for CJK characters (for Chinese)
- `reformed`
  - : Reformed ordering (for Swedish)
    > **Note:** This is the default ordering for Swedish whose collation naming is unusual as of May 2022. Since this is the default, request `sv` instead of requesting `sv-u-co-reformed`.
- `search`
  - : Special collation type for string search
    > **Warning:** Do not use. In [`Intl.Collator`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Collator), this collation is activated via the `search` value for the `usage` option. Furthermore, there is currently no API for actually using the collator for search.
- `searchjl`
  - : Special collation type for Korean initial consonant search
- `standard`
  - : Default ordering for each language, except Chinese and, as of May 2022, Swedish
    > **Warning:** Do not use explicitly. In general, it's unnecessary to specify this explicitly and specifying this for Swedish is problematic in case the naming of the Swedish collations is changed to be consistent with other languages in the future.
- `stroke`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, stroke order for CJK characters (for Chinese)
- `trad`
  - : Traditional style ordering (such as in Spanish)
- `unihan`
  - : Radical-stroke ordering for Han characters (for Chinese, Japanese, and Korean). Pinyin ordering for Latin in the case of Chinese.
    > **Note:** The `unihan` collation type is not available in Chrome or Edge.
- `zhuyin`
  - : Pinyin ordering for Latin, zhuyin order for Bopomofo and CJK characters (for Chinese)

## Examples

### Obtaining supported collation types

If the `Locale` object doesn't have a `collation` already, the `collations` property lists all commonly-used collation types for the given `Locale`. For examples of explicitly setting a `collation`, see [`collation` examples](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/collation#examples).

```js
const locale = new Intl.Locale("zh");
console.log(locale.collations); // ["pinyin", "stroke", "zhuyin", "emoji", "eor"]
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Intl.Locale")}}
- [`Intl.Locale.prototype.collation`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale/collation)
