files/en-us/web/css/animation/index.md, before:

---
title: animation
slug: Web/CSS/animation
page-type: css-shorthand-property
browser-compat: css.properties.animation
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`animation`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property applies an animation between styles. It is a shorthand for {{cssxref("animation-name")}}, {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, {{cssxref("animation-timing-function")}}, {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}, {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}}, {{cssxref("animation-direction")}}, {{cssxref("animation-fill-mode")}}, and {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}}.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/animation.html")}}

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- [`animation-delay`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-delay)
- [`animation-direction`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-direction)
- [`animation-duration`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-duration)
- [`animation-fill-mode`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-fill-mode)
- [`animation-iteration-count`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-iteration-count)
- [`animation-name`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-name)
- [`animation-play-state`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-play-state)
- [`animation-timing-function`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timing-function)

## Syntax

```css
/* @keyframes duration | easing-function | delay |
iteration-count | direction | fill-mode | play-state | name */
animation: 3s ease-in 1s 2 reverse both paused slidein;

/* @keyframes duration | easing-function | delay | name */
animation: 3s linear 1s slidein;

/* two animations */
animation: 3s linear slidein, 3s ease-out 5s slideout;
```

The `animation` property is specified as one or more single animations, separated by commas.

Each individual animation is specified as:

- zero, one, or two occurrences of the {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} value

- zero or one occurrences of the following values:

  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-easing-function&gt;", "#single-easing-function")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-iteration-count&gt;", "#single-animation-iteration-count")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-direction&gt;", "#single-animation-direction")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-fill-mode&gt;", "#single-animation-fill-mode")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-play-state&gt;", "#single-animation-play-state")}}

- an optional name for the animation, which may be `none`, a {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}}, or a {{cssxref("&lt;string&gt;")}}

### Values

- `<single-easing-function>`
  - : Determines the type of transition. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("easing-function")}}.
- `<single-animation-iteration-count>`
  - : The number of times the animation is played. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}}.
- `<single-animation-direction>`
  - : The direction in which the animation is played. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-direction")}}.
- `<single-animation-fill-mode>`
  - : Determines how styles should be applied to the animation's target before and after its execution. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-fill-mode")}}.
- `<single-animation-play-state>`
  - : Determines whether the animation is playing or not. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}}.

## Description

The order of time values within each animation definition is important: the first value that can be parsed as a {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} is assigned to the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, and the second one is assigned to {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}.

The order of other values within each animation definition is also important for distinguishing an {{cssxref("animation-name")}} value from other values. If a value in the `animation` shorthand can be parsed as a value for an animation property other than `animation-name`, then the value will be applied to that property first and not to `animation-name`. For this reason, the recommended practice is to specify a value for `animation-name` as the last value in a list of values when using the `animation` shorthand; this holds true even when you specify multiple, comma-separated animations using the `animation` shorthand.

An `animation-name` value is not required to be declared in the `animation` shorthand property. If no name exists, there is no animation to apply on any of the properties.

When the `animation-duration` value is omitted from the `animation` shorthand property, the value for this property defaults to `0s`. In this case, the animation will still occur (the [`animationStart`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/animationstart_event) and [`animationEnd`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/animationend_event) events will be fired) but no animation will be visible.

## Accessibility concerns

Blinking and flashing animation can be problematic for people with cognitive concerns such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Additionally, certain kinds of motion can be a trigger for Vestibular disorders, epilepsy, and migraine and Scotopic sensitivity.

Consider providing a mechanism for pausing or disabling animation as well as using the [Reduced Motion Media Query](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) to create a complimentary experience for users who have expressed a preference for reduced animated experiences.

- [Designing Safer Web Animation For Motion Sensitivity · An A List Apart Article](https://alistapart.com/article/designing-safer-web-animation-for-motion-sensitivity/)
- [An Introduction to the Reduced Motion Media Query | CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/introduction-reduced-motion-media-query/)
- [Responsive Design for Motion | WebKit](https://webkit.org/blog/7551/responsive-design-for-motion/)
- [MDN Understanding WCAG, Guideline 2.2 explanations](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG/Operable#guideline_2.2_%e2%80%94_enough_time_provide_users_enough_time_to_read_and_use_content)
- [Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.2 | W3C Understanding WCAG 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/time-limits-pause.html)

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

> **Note:** Animating [CSS Box Model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model) properties is discouraged. Animating any box model property is inherently CPU intensive; consider animating the [transform](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform) property instead.

### Sun Rise

Here we animate a yellow sun across a light blue sky. The sun rises
to the center of the viewport and then falls out of sight.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden; /* hides any part of the sun below the horizon */
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center; /* centers the sun in the background */
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%; /* creates a circular background */
  height: 100vh; /* makes the sun the size of the viewport */
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate sun-rise;
}

@keyframes sun-rise {
  from {
    /* pushes the sun down past the viewport */
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    /* returns the sun to its default position */
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Sun_Rise')}}

### Animating Multiple Properties

Adding onto the sun animation in the previous example, we add a second animation changing the color of the sun as it rises and sets. The sun starts off dark red when it is below the horizon and changes to a bright orange as it reaches the top.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate animating-multiple-properties;
}

/* it is possible to animate multiple properties in a single animation */
@keyframes animating-multiple-properties {
  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
    background-color: red;
    filter: brightness(75%);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
    background-color: orange;
    /* unset properties i.e. 'filter' will revert to default values */
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Animating Multiple Properties')}}

### Applying Multiple Animations

Here is a sun that rises and falls on a lightblue background. The sun
gradually rotates through a rainbow of colors. The timing of the sun's
position and color are independent.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  /* multiple animations are separated by commas, each animation's parameters are set independently */
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate rise, 24s linear 0s infinite
      psychedelic;
}

@keyframes rise {
  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}

@keyframes psychedelic {
  from {
    filter: hue-rotate(0deg);
  }
  to {
    filter: hue-rotate(360deg);
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Applying Multiple Animations')}}

### Cascading Multiple Animations

Here is a yellow sun on a lightblue background. The sun bounces between the
left and right sides of the viewport. The sun remains in the viewport even
though a rise animation is defined. The rise animation's transform property
is 'overwritten' by the bounce animation.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  /*
    animations declared later in the cascade will override the
    properties of previously declared animations
  */
  /* bounce 'overwrites' the transform set by rise, hence the sun only moves horizontally */
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate rise, 4s linear 0s infinite
      alternate bounce;
}

@keyframes rise {
  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}

@keyframes bounce {
  from {
    transform: translateX(-50vw);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateX(50vw);
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Cascading Multiple Animations')}}

See [Using CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations#examples) for additional examples.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations)
- JavaScript {{domxref("AnimationEvent")}} API

Commit message:

Update index.md (#27100)
* Update index.md

Typo in the description of the animation-name property, it read "An animation-name value is not required to be declared in the animation shorthand property. If no name exists, there is no animation to apply on any of the properties." 

instead of

 "An animation-name value is required to be declared in the animation shorthand property. If no name exists, there is no animation to apply on any of the properties."

* Update files/en-us/web/css/animation/index.md

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>

---------

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>

files/en-us/web/css/animation/index.md, after:

---
title: animation
slug: Web/CSS/animation
page-type: css-shorthand-property
browser-compat: css.properties.animation
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`animation`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property applies an animation between styles. It is a shorthand for {{cssxref("animation-name")}}, {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, {{cssxref("animation-timing-function")}}, {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}, {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}}, {{cssxref("animation-direction")}}, {{cssxref("animation-fill-mode")}}, and {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}}.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/animation.html")}}

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- [`animation-delay`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-delay)
- [`animation-direction`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-direction)
- [`animation-duration`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-duration)
- [`animation-fill-mode`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-fill-mode)
- [`animation-iteration-count`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-iteration-count)
- [`animation-name`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-name)
- [`animation-play-state`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-play-state)
- [`animation-timing-function`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timing-function)

## Syntax

```css
/* @keyframes duration | easing-function | delay |
iteration-count | direction | fill-mode | play-state | name */
animation: 3s ease-in 1s 2 reverse both paused slidein;

/* @keyframes duration | easing-function | delay | name */
animation: 3s linear 1s slidein;

/* two animations */
animation: 3s linear slidein, 3s ease-out 5s slideout;
```

The `animation` property is specified as one or more single animations, separated by commas.

Each individual animation is specified as:

- zero, one, or two occurrences of the {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} value

- zero or one occurrences of the following values:

  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-easing-function&gt;", "#single-easing-function")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-iteration-count&gt;", "#single-animation-iteration-count")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-direction&gt;", "#single-animation-direction")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-fill-mode&gt;", "#single-animation-fill-mode")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-play-state&gt;", "#single-animation-play-state")}}

- an optional name for the animation, which may be `none`, a {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}}, or a {{cssxref("&lt;string&gt;")}}

### Values

- `<single-easing-function>`
  - : Determines the type of transition. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("easing-function")}}.
- `<single-animation-iteration-count>`
  - : The number of times the animation is played. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-iteration-count")}}.
- `<single-animation-direction>`
  - : The direction in which the animation is played. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-direction")}}.
- `<single-animation-fill-mode>`
  - : Determines how styles should be applied to the animation's target before and after its execution. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-fill-mode")}}.
- `<single-animation-play-state>`
  - : Determines whether the animation is playing or not. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}}.

## Description

The order of time values within each animation definition is important: the first value that can be parsed as a {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} is assigned to the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, and the second one is assigned to {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}.

The order of other values within each animation definition is also important for distinguishing an {{cssxref("animation-name")}} value from other values. If a value in the `animation` shorthand can be parsed as a value for an animation property other than `animation-name`, then the value will be applied to that property first and not to `animation-name`. For this reason, the recommended practice is to specify a value for `animation-name` as the last value in a list of values when using the `animation` shorthand; this holds true even when you specify multiple, comma-separated animations using the `animation` shorthand.

While an animation name must be set for an animation to be applied, all values of the `animation` shorthand are optional, and default to the initial value for each long-hand `animation` component. The initial value of `animation-name` is `none`, meaning if no `animation-name` value is declared in the `animation` shorthand property, there is no animation to apply on any of the properties.

When the `animation-duration` value is omitted from the `animation` shorthand property, the value for this property defaults to `0s`. In this case, the animation will still occur (the [`animationStart`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/animationstart_event) and [`animationEnd`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/animationend_event) events will be fired) but no animation will be visible.

## Accessibility concerns

Blinking and flashing animation can be problematic for people with cognitive concerns such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Additionally, certain kinds of motion can be a trigger for Vestibular disorders, epilepsy, and migraine and Scotopic sensitivity.

Consider providing a mechanism for pausing or disabling animation as well as using the [Reduced Motion Media Query](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) to create a complimentary experience for users who have expressed a preference for reduced animated experiences.

- [Designing Safer Web Animation For Motion Sensitivity · An A List Apart Article](https://alistapart.com/article/designing-safer-web-animation-for-motion-sensitivity/)
- [An Introduction to the Reduced Motion Media Query | CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/introduction-reduced-motion-media-query/)
- [Responsive Design for Motion | WebKit](https://webkit.org/blog/7551/responsive-design-for-motion/)
- [MDN Understanding WCAG, Guideline 2.2 explanations](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG/Operable#guideline_2.2_%e2%80%94_enough_time_provide_users_enough_time_to_read_and_use_content)
- [Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.2 | W3C Understanding WCAG 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/time-limits-pause.html)

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

> **Note:** Animating [CSS Box Model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model) properties is discouraged. Animating any box model property is inherently CPU intensive; consider animating the [transform](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/transform) property instead.

### Sun Rise

Here we animate a yellow sun across a light blue sky. The sun rises
to the center of the viewport and then falls out of sight.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden; /* hides any part of the sun below the horizon */
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center; /* centers the sun in the background */
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%; /* creates a circular background */
  height: 100vh; /* makes the sun the size of the viewport */
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate sun-rise;
}

@keyframes sun-rise {
  from {
    /* pushes the sun down past the viewport */
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    /* returns the sun to its default position */
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Sun_Rise')}}

### Animating Multiple Properties

Adding onto the sun animation in the previous example, we add a second animation changing the color of the sun as it rises and sets. The sun starts off dark red when it is below the horizon and changes to a bright orange as it reaches the top.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate animating-multiple-properties;
}

/* it is possible to animate multiple properties in a single animation */
@keyframes animating-multiple-properties {
  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
    background-color: red;
    filter: brightness(75%);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
    background-color: orange;
    /* unset properties i.e. 'filter' will revert to default values */
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Animating Multiple Properties')}}

### Applying Multiple Animations

Here is a sun that rises and falls on a lightblue background. The sun
gradually rotates through a rainbow of colors. The timing of the sun's
position and color are independent.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  /* multiple animations are separated by commas, each animation's parameters are set independently */
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate rise, 24s linear 0s infinite
      psychedelic;
}

@keyframes rise {
  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}

@keyframes psychedelic {
  from {
    filter: hue-rotate(0deg);
  }
  to {
    filter: hue-rotate(360deg);
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Applying Multiple Animations')}}

### Cascading Multiple Animations

Here is a yellow sun on a lightblue background. The sun bounces between the
left and right sides of the viewport. The sun remains in the viewport even
though a rise animation is defined. The rise animation's transform property
is 'overwritten' by the bounce animation.

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
  /*
    animations declared later in the cascade will override the
    properties of previously declared animations
  */
  /* bounce 'overwrites' the transform set by rise, hence the sun only moves horizontally */
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate rise, 4s linear 0s infinite
      alternate bounce;
}

@keyframes rise {
  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}

@keyframes bounce {
  from {
    transform: translateX(-50vw);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateX(50vw);
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Cascading Multiple Animations')}}

See [Using CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations#examples) for additional examples.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations)
- JavaScript {{domxref("AnimationEvent")}} API
