files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/date/setfullyear/index.md, before:

---
title: Date.prototype.setFullYear()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/setFullYear
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Date.setFullYear
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`setFullYear()`** method sets the full year for a
specified date according to local time. Returns new timestamp.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/date-setfullyear.html")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
setFullYear(yearValue)
setFullYear(yearValue, monthValue)
setFullYear(yearValue, monthValue, dateValue)
```

### Parameters

- `yearValue`
  - : An integer specifying the numeric value of the year, for example, 1995.
- `monthValue`
  - : Optional. An integer between 0 and 11 representing the months January through
    December.
- `dateValue`
  - : Optional. An integer between 1 and 31 representing the day of the month. If you
    specify the `dateValue` parameter, you must also specify the
    `monthValue`.

### Return value

The number of milliseconds between 1 January 1970 00:00:00 UTC and the updated date.

## Description

If you do not specify the `monthValue` and
`dateValue` parameters, the values returned from the
{{jsxref("Date.prototype.getMonth()", "getMonth()")}} and
{{jsxref("Date.prototype.getDate()", "getDate()")}} methods are used.

If a parameter you specify is outside of the expected range, `setFullYear()`
attempts to update the other parameters and the date information in the
{{jsxref("Date")}} object accordingly. For example, if you specify 15 for
`monthValue`, the year is incremented by 1
(`yearValue + 1`), and 3 is used for the month.

## Examples

### Using setFullYear()

```js
const theBigDay = new Date();
theBigDay.setFullYear(1997);
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.getUTCFullYear()")}}
- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.setUTCFullYear()")}}
- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.setYear()")}}

Commit message:

Improve Date (1): timestamps & date components (#25255)
* Improve Date (1): timestamps & date components

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: dawei-wang <dawei-wang@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address comments

---------

Co-authored-by: dawei-wang <dawei-wang@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/date/setfullyear/index.md, after:

---
title: Date.prototype.setFullYear()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/setFullYear
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Date.setFullYear
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`setFullYear()`** method of a {{jsxref("Date")}} instance changes the year, month, and/or day of month for this date according to local time.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/date-setfullyear.html")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
setFullYear(yearValue)
setFullYear(yearValue, monthValue)
setFullYear(yearValue, monthValue, dateValue)
```

### Parameters

- `yearValue`
  - : An integer representing the year. For example, 1995.
- `monthValue` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An integer representing the month: 0 for January, 1 for February, and so on.
- `dateValue` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An integer between 1 and 31 representing the day of the month. If you specify `dateValue`, you must also specify `monthValue`.

### Return value

Changes the {{jsxref("Date")}} object in place, and returns its new [timestamp](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date#the_epoch_timestamps_and_invalid_date). If a parameter is `NaN` (or other values that get [coerced](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number#number_coercion) to `NaN`, such as `undefined`), the date is set to [Invalid Date](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date#the_epoch_timestamps_and_invalid_date) and `NaN` is returned.

## Description

If you do not specify the `monthValue` and `dateValue` parameters, the same values as what are returned by {{jsxref("Date/getMonth", "getMonth()")}} and {{jsxref("Date/getDate", "getDate()")}} are used.

If a parameter you specify is outside of the expected range, other parameters and the date information in the {{jsxref("Date")}} object are updated accordingly. For example, if you specify 15 for `monthValue`, the year is incremented by 1 (`yearValue + 1`), and 3 is used for the month.

## Examples

### Using setFullYear()

```js
const theBigDay = new Date();
theBigDay.setFullYear(1997);
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.getUTCFullYear()")}}
- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.setUTCFullYear()")}}
- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.setYear()")}}
