files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/index.md, before:

---
title: WritableStreamDefaultController
slug: Web/API/WritableStreamDefaultController
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.WritableStreamDefaultController
---

{{APIRef("Streams")}}

The **`WritableStreamDefaultController`** interface of the [Streams API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API) represents a controller allowing control of a {{domxref("WritableStream")}}'s state. When constructing a `WritableStream`, the underlying sink is given a corresponding `WritableStreamDefaultController` instance to manipulate.

## Constructor

None. `WritableStreamDefaultController` instances are created automatically during `WritableStream` construction.

## Instance properties

None.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("WritableStreamDefaultController.error()")}}
  - : Causes any future interactions with the associated stream to error.

## Examples

```js
const writableStream = new WritableStream({
  start(controller) {
    // do stuff with controller

    // error stream if necessary
    controller.error("My stream is broken");
  },
  write(chunk, controller) {
    // ...
  },
  close(controller) {
    // ...
  },
  abort(err) {
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Document WritableStreamDefaultController.signal (#25566)
* Docuemnt WritableStreamDefaultController.signal

* Add the actual file

* Update files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/signal/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/signal/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/signal/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/signal/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Fix typo

* Fix typo

* Fix grammar

* Fix grammar

* Update files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/signal/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/signal/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

files/en-us/web/api/writablestreamdefaultcontroller/index.md, after:

---
title: WritableStreamDefaultController
slug: Web/API/WritableStreamDefaultController
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.WritableStreamDefaultController
---

{{APIRef("Streams")}}

The **`WritableStreamDefaultController`** interface of the [Streams API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API) represents a controller allowing control of a {{domxref("WritableStream")}}'s state. When constructing a `WritableStream`, the underlying sink is given a corresponding `WritableStreamDefaultController` instance to manipulate.

## Constructor

None. `WritableStreamDefaultController` instances are created automatically during `WritableStream` construction.

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("WritableStreamDefaultController.signal")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the {{domxref("AbortSignal")}} associated with the controller.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("WritableStreamDefaultController.error()")}}
  - : Causes any future interactions with the associated stream to error.

## Examples

```js
const writableStream = new WritableStream({
  start(controller) {
    // do stuff with controller

    // error stream if necessary
    controller.error("My stream is broken");
  },
  write(chunk, controller) {
    // ...
  },
  close(controller) {
    // ...
  },
  abort(err) {
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}
