files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/page_structures/page_types/api_reference_page_template/index.md, before:

---
title: API reference page template
slug: MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/API_reference_page_template
page-type: mdn-writing-guide
browser-compat: path.to.feature.NameOfTheInterface
---

{{MDNSidebar}}

## Page front matter

The page front matter in the pages on MDN Web Docs comprises of the YAML headers listed and described below. This YAML content at the top of a page is used to define the "page front matter" or the "page metadata". The values should be updated appropriately when describing a particular interface.

> **Note:** _Remove this whole explanatory note before publishing._
>
> ```md
> ---
> title: NameOfTheInterface
> slug: Web/API/NameOfTheInterface
> page-type: web-api-interface
> status:
>   - experimental
>   - deprecated
>   - non-standard
> browser-compat: path.to.feature.NameOfTheInterface
> ---
> ```
>
> - **title**
>   - : Title heading displayed at top of page. This is just the name of the interface. For example, the [Request](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) interface page has a _title_ of _Request_.
> - **slug**
>   - : The end of the URL path after `https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/`). This will be formatted like `Web/API/NameOfTheParentInterface`. For example, [Request](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) slug is "Web/API/Request".
> - **page-type**
>   - : The `page-type` key for Web/API interfaces is always `web-api-interface`.
> - **status**
>   - : Include (appropriate) technology status keys: [**experimental**](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#experimental), [**deprecated**](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#deprecated_and_obsolete), **non-standard** (if not on a standards track).
> - **browser-compat**
>
>   - : Replace the placeholder value `path.to.feature.NameOfTheMethod` with the query string for the method in the [Browser compat data repo](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data). The toolchain automatically uses the key to populate the compatibility and specification sections (replacing the `\{{Compat}}` and `\{{Specifications}}` macros).
>
>     Note that you may first need to create/update an entry for the API method in our [Browser compat data repo](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data), and the entry for the API will need to include specification information. See our [guide on how to do this](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Compatibility_tables).

## Top macros

By default, there are five macro calls at the top of a template. You should update or delete them according to the advice below.

> **Note:** _Remove this whole explanatory note before publishing._
>
> - `\{{APIRef("<em>GroupDataName</em>")}}` — this generates the left-hand reference sidebar showing quick reference links related to the current page. For example, every page in the [WebVR API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebVR_API) has the same sidebar, which points to the other pages in the API. To generate the correct sidebar for your API, you need to add a GroupData entry to our KumaScript GitHub repo, and include the entry's name inside the macro call in place of _GroupDataName_. See our [API reference sidebars](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Write_an_API_reference/Sidebars) guide for information on how to do this.
> - `\{{SeeCompatTable}}` — this generates a **This is an experimental technology** banner that indicates the technology is [experimental](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#experimental). If the technology you are documenting is not experimental, you can remove this. If it is experimental, and the technology is hidden behind a pref in Firefox, you should also fill in an entry for it in the [Experimental features in Firefox](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Firefox/Experimental_features) page.
> - `\{{SecureContext_Header}}` — this generates a **Secure context** banner that indicates the technology is only available in a [secure context](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts). If it isn't, then you can remove the macro call. If it is, then you should also fill in an entry for it in the [Features restricted to secure contexts](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts/features_restricted_to_secure_contexts) page.
> - `\{{Deprecated_Header}}` — this generates a **Deprecated** banner that indicates the technology is [deprecated](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#deprecated_and_obsolete). If it isn't, then you can remove the macro call.
> - `\{{Interface_Overview("<em>GroupDataName</em>")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}` — this generates the main body of the page (Constructor, Properties, Methods and Events).

{{APIRef("GroupDataName")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}{{Deprecated_Header}}

The summary paragraph — start by naming the interface, saying what API it is part of, and saying what it does. This should ideally be 1 or 2 short sentences. You could copy most of this from the Interface's summary on the corresponding API landing page.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Constructor

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.NameOfTheInterface", "NameOfTheInterface()")}}
  - : Creates a new instance of the {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface")}} object.

## Static properties

_Also inherits properties from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticProperty1")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the property and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each property. If the property is not readonly/experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticProperty2")}}
  - : etc.

## Instance properties

_Also inherits properties from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.property1")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the property and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each property. If the property is not readonly/experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.property2")}}
  - : etc.

## Static methods

_Also inherits methods from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticMethod1()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the method and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each method. If the method is not experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticMethod2()")}}
  - : etc.

## Instance methods

_Also inherits methods from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.method1()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the method and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each method. If the method is not experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.method2()")}}
  - : etc.

## Events

Listen to these events using [`addEventListener()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/addEventListener) or by assigning an event listener to the `oneventname` property of this interface.

- [`eventname1`](#)
  - : Fired when (include the description of when the event fires).
    Also available via the `oneventname1` property.
- [`eventname2`](#)
  - : Fired when _(include a description of when the event fires)_.
    Also available via the `oneventname2` property.
- etc.
  - : Fired when…

## Examples

Note that we use the plural "Examples" even if the page only contains one example.

### A descriptive heading

Each example must have an H3 heading (`###`) naming the example. The heading should be descriptive of what the example is doing. For example, "A simple example" does not say anything about the example and therefore, not a good heading. The heading should be concise. For a longer description, use the paragraph after the heading.

See our guide on how to add [code examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Code_examples) for more information.

> **Note:** Sometimes you will want to link to examples given on another page.
>
> **Scenario 1:** If you have some examples on this page and some more examples on another page:
>
> Include an H3 heading (`###`) for each example on this page and then a final H3 heading (`###`) with the text "More examples", under which you can link to the examples on other pages. For example:
>
> ```md
> ## Examples
>
> ### Using the fetch API
>
> Example of Fetch
>
> ### More examples
>
> Links to more examples on other pages
> ```
>
> **Scenario 2:** If you _only_ have examples on another page and none on this page:
>
> Don't add any H3 headings; just add the links directly under the H2 heading "Examples". For example:
>
> ```md
> ## Examples
>
> For examples of this API, see [the page on fetch()](https://example.org).
> ```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- Include list of
- other links related to
- this API that might
- be useful

Commit message:

docs(meta): Add See also section guidelines to writing style guide (#25191)
* add guidelines for see also section

* fix see also in style guide

* add see also section pointer in templates

* minor edits

* fix link

* change see also to further reading

* update guidelines and one example section

* update bulleted list period guideline

* update book links as per review

* clarify phrase in bulleted list

* remove outdated guideline

---------

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>

files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/page_structures/page_types/api_reference_page_template/index.md, after:

---
title: API reference page template
slug: MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/API_reference_page_template
page-type: mdn-writing-guide
browser-compat: path.to.feature.NameOfTheInterface
---

{{MDNSidebar}}

## Page front matter

The page front matter in the pages on MDN Web Docs comprises of the YAML headers listed and described below. This YAML content at the top of a page is used to define the "page front matter" or the "page metadata". The values should be updated appropriately when describing a particular interface.

> **Note:** _Remove this whole explanatory note before publishing._
>
> ```md
> ---
> title: NameOfTheInterface
> slug: Web/API/NameOfTheInterface
> page-type: web-api-interface
> status:
>   - experimental
>   - deprecated
>   - non-standard
> browser-compat: path.to.feature.NameOfTheInterface
> ---
> ```
>
> - **title**
>   - : Title heading displayed at top of page. This is just the name of the interface. For example, the [Request](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) interface page has a _title_ of _Request_.
> - **slug**
>   - : The end of the URL path after `https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/`). This will be formatted like `Web/API/NameOfTheParentInterface`. For example, [Request](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) slug is "Web/API/Request".
> - **page-type**
>   - : The `page-type` key for Web/API interfaces is always `web-api-interface`.
> - **status**
>   - : Include (appropriate) technology status keys: [**experimental**](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#experimental), [**deprecated**](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#deprecated_and_obsolete), **non-standard** (if not on a standards track).
> - **browser-compat**
>
>   - : Replace the placeholder value `path.to.feature.NameOfTheMethod` with the query string for the method in the [Browser compat data repo](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data). The toolchain automatically uses the key to populate the compatibility and specification sections (replacing the `\{{Compat}}` and `\{{Specifications}}` macros).
>
>     Note that you may first need to create/update an entry for the API method in our [Browser compat data repo](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data), and the entry for the API will need to include specification information. See our [guide on how to do this](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Compatibility_tables).

## Top macros

By default, there are five macro calls at the top of a template. You should update or delete them according to the advice below.

> **Note:** _Remove this whole explanatory note before publishing._
>
> - `\{{APIRef("<em>GroupDataName</em>")}}` — this generates the left-hand reference sidebar showing quick reference links related to the current page. For example, every page in the [WebVR API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebVR_API) has the same sidebar, which points to the other pages in the API. To generate the correct sidebar for your API, you need to add a GroupData entry to our KumaScript GitHub repo, and include the entry's name inside the macro call in place of _GroupDataName_. See our [API reference sidebars](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Write_an_API_reference/Sidebars) guide for information on how to do this.
> - `\{{SeeCompatTable}}` — this generates a **This is an experimental technology** banner that indicates the technology is [experimental](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#experimental). If the technology you are documenting is not experimental, you can remove this. If it is experimental, and the technology is hidden behind a pref in Firefox, you should also fill in an entry for it in the [Experimental features in Firefox](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Firefox/Experimental_features) page.
> - `\{{SecureContext_Header}}` — this generates a **Secure context** banner that indicates the technology is only available in a [secure context](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts). If it isn't, then you can remove the macro call. If it is, then you should also fill in an entry for it in the [Features restricted to secure contexts](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts/features_restricted_to_secure_contexts) page.
> - `\{{Deprecated_Header}}` — this generates a **Deprecated** banner that indicates the technology is [deprecated](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Experimental_deprecated_obsolete#deprecated_and_obsolete). If it isn't, then you can remove the macro call.
> - `\{{Interface_Overview("<em>GroupDataName</em>")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}` — this generates the main body of the page (Constructor, Properties, Methods and Events).

{{APIRef("GroupDataName")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}{{Deprecated_Header}}

The summary paragraph — start by naming the interface, saying what API it is part of, and saying what it does. This should ideally be 1 or 2 short sentences. You could copy most of this from the Interface's summary on the corresponding API landing page.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Constructor

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.NameOfTheInterface", "NameOfTheInterface()")}}
  - : Creates a new instance of the {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface")}} object.

## Static properties

_Also inherits properties from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticProperty1")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the property and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each property. If the property is not readonly/experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticProperty2")}}
  - : etc.

## Instance properties

_Also inherits properties from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.property1")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the property and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each property. If the property is not readonly/experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.property2")}}
  - : etc.

## Static methods

_Also inherits methods from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticMethod1()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the method and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each method. If the method is not experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.staticMethod2()")}}
  - : etc.

## Instance methods

_Also inherits methods from its parent interface, {{DOMxRef("NameOfParentInterface")}}._ (Note: If the interface doesn't inherit from another interface, remove this whole line.)

- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.method1()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Include a brief description of the method and what it does here. Include one term and definition for each method. If the method is not experimental/deprecated, remove the relevant macro calls.
- {{DOMxRef("NameOfTheInterface.method2()")}}
  - : etc.

## Events

Listen to these events using [`addEventListener()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/addEventListener) or by assigning an event listener to the `oneventname` property of this interface.

- [`eventname1`](#)
  - : Fired when (include the description of when the event fires).
    Also available via the `oneventname1` property.
- [`eventname2`](#)
  - : Fired when _(include a description of when the event fires)_.
    Also available via the `oneventname2` property.
- etc.
  - : Fired when…

## Examples

Note that we use the plural "Examples" even if the page only contains one example.

### A descriptive heading

Each example must have an H3 heading (`###`) naming the example. The heading should be descriptive of what the example is doing. For example, "A simple example" does not say anything about the example and therefore, not a good heading. The heading should be concise. For a longer description, use the paragraph after the heading.

See our guide on how to add [code examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Code_examples) for more information.

> **Note:** Sometimes you will want to link to examples given on another page.
>
> **Scenario 1:** If you have some examples on this page and some more examples on another page:
>
> Include an H3 heading (`###`) for each example on this page and then a final H3 heading (`###`) with the text "More examples", under which you can link to the examples on other pages. For example:
>
> ```md
> ## Examples
>
> ### Using the fetch API
>
> Example of Fetch
>
> ### More examples
>
> Links to more examples on other pages
> ```
>
> **Scenario 2:** If you _only_ have examples on another page and none on this page:
>
> Don't add any H3 headings; just add the links directly under the H2 heading "Examples". For example:
>
> ```md
> ## Examples
>
> For examples of this API, see [the page on fetch()](https://example.org).
> ```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

Include links to reference pages and guides related to the current API. For more guidelines, see the [See also section](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide#see_also_section) in the _Writing style guide_.

- link1
- link2
