files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/numberformat/supportedlocalesof/index.md, before:

---
title: Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/supportedLocalesOf
page-type: javascript-static-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf()`** static method returns
an array containing those of the provided locales that are supported in number
formatting without having to fall back to the runtime's default locale.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/intl-numberformat-prototype-supportedlocalesof.html","shorter")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf(locales)
Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf(locales, options)
```

### Parameters

- `locales`
  - : A string with a BCP 47 language tag, or an array of such strings. For the general form and interpretation of the `locales` argument, see [Locale identification and negotiation](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl#locale_identification_and_negotiation).
- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An object that may have the following property:

    - `localeMatcher`
      - : The locale matching algorithm to use. Possible values are
        `"lookup"` and `"best fit"`; the default is
        `"best fit"`. For information about this option, see the
        {{jsxref("Intl", "Intl", "#locale_identification_and_negotiation", 1)}} page.

### Return value

An array of strings representing a subset of the given locale tags that are supported
in number formatting without having to fall back to the runtime's default locale.

## Description

Returns an array with a subset of the language tags provided in `locales`.
The language tags returned are those for which the runtime supports a locale in number
formatting that the locale matching algorithm used considers a match, so that it
wouldn't have to fall back to the default locale.

## Examples

### Using supportedLocalesOf()

Assuming a runtime that supports Indonesian and German but not Balinese in number
formatting, `supportedLocalesOf` returns the Indonesian and German language
tags unchanged, even though `pinyin` collation is neither relevant to
number formatting nor used with Indonesian, and a specialized German for Indonesia is
unlikely to be supported. Note the specification of the `"lookup"`
algorithm here — a `"best fit"` matcher might decide that Indonesian is an
adequate match for Balinese since most Balinese speakers also understand Indonesian,
and therefore return the Balinese language tag as well.

```js
const locales = ["ban", "id-u-co-pinyin", "de-ID"];
const options = { localeMatcher: "lookup" };
console.log(Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf(locales, options).join(", "));
// → "id-u-co-pinyin, de-ID"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Intl.NumberFormat")}}

Commit message:

Change link target of locales parameter description (#25921)
* Browser locale will be used if no locales passed

Locales are optional but not passing any locales is also a decision that has it's own side effects. What developer will see as formatted string depends on browser locale which may not be clear upfront.

* Update files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/numberformat/numberformat/index.md

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>

* Fix

---------

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/numberformat/supportedlocalesof/index.md, after:

---
title: Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/supportedLocalesOf
page-type: javascript-static-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf()`** static method returns
an array containing those of the provided locales that are supported in number
formatting without having to fall back to the runtime's default locale.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/intl-numberformat-prototype-supportedlocalesof.html","shorter")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf(locales)
Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf(locales, options)
```

### Parameters

- `locales`
  - : A string with a BCP 47 language tag, or an array of such strings. For the general form and interpretation of the `locales` argument, see [the parameter description on the `Intl` main page](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl#locales_argument).
- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An object that may have the following property:

    - `localeMatcher`
      - : The locale matching algorithm to use. Possible values are
        `"lookup"` and `"best fit"`; the default is
        `"best fit"`. For information about this option, see the
        {{jsxref("Intl", "Intl", "#locale_identification_and_negotiation", 1)}} page.

### Return value

An array of strings representing a subset of the given locale tags that are supported
in number formatting without having to fall back to the runtime's default locale.

## Description

Returns an array with a subset of the language tags provided in `locales`.
The language tags returned are those for which the runtime supports a locale in number
formatting that the locale matching algorithm used considers a match, so that it
wouldn't have to fall back to the default locale.

## Examples

### Using supportedLocalesOf()

Assuming a runtime that supports Indonesian and German but not Balinese in number
formatting, `supportedLocalesOf` returns the Indonesian and German language
tags unchanged, even though `pinyin` collation is neither relevant to
number formatting nor used with Indonesian, and a specialized German for Indonesia is
unlikely to be supported. Note the specification of the `"lookup"`
algorithm here — a `"best fit"` matcher might decide that Indonesian is an
adequate match for Balinese since most Balinese speakers also understand Indonesian,
and therefore return the Balinese language tag as well.

```js
const locales = ["ban", "id-u-co-pinyin", "de-ID"];
const options = { localeMatcher: "lookup" };
console.log(Intl.NumberFormat.supportedLocalesOf(locales, options).join(", "));
// → "id-u-co-pinyin, de-ID"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Intl.NumberFormat")}}
