files/en-us/web/api/rtcrtpsender/getstats/index.md, before:

---
title: "RTCRtpSender: getStats() method"
short-title: getStats()
slug: Web/API/RTCRtpSender/getStats
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.RTCRtpSender.getStats
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

The {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}} method **`getStats()`**
asynchronously requests an {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} object which provides
statistics about outgoing traffic on the {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} which owns the
sender, returning a {{jsxref("Promise")}} which is fulfilled when the results are
available.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getStats()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A JavaScript {{jsxref("Promise")}} which is fulfilled once the statistics are
available. The promise's fulfillment handler receives as a parameter a
{{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} object containing the collected statistics.

The returned `RTCStatsReport` accumulates the statistics for all of the
streams being sent using the `RTCRtpSender`, as well as the statistics for
any dependencies those streams have.

## Examples

This simple example obtains the statistics for an `RTCRtpSender` and updates
an element's {{domxref("HTMLElement/innerText", "innerText")}} to display the current round
trip time for requests on the sender.

```js
sender.getStats().then((stats) => {
  document.getElementById("currentRTT").innerText = stats.roundTripTime;
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API)
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}}
- {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver.getStats()")}}
- {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}}

Commit message:

WebRTC Stats: capture what stats might be in sender and receiver (#27161)

files/en-us/web/api/rtcrtpsender/getstats/index.md, after:

---
title: "RTCRtpSender: getStats() method"
short-title: getStats()
slug: Web/API/RTCRtpSender/getStats
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.RTCRtpSender.getStats
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

The {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}} method **`getStats()`** asynchronously requests an {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} object which provides statistics about outgoing traffic on the {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} which owns the sender, returning a {{jsxref("Promise")}} which is fulfilled when the results are available.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getStats()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A JavaScript {{jsxref("Promise")}} which is fulfilled once the statistics are available.
The promise's fulfillment handler receives as a parameter a {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} object containing the collected statistics.

The returned `RTCStatsReport` accumulates the statistics for all of the streams being sent using the `RTCRtpSender`, as well as the statistics for any dependencies those streams have.

These might include, for example, statistics with [types](2/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCStatsReport#the_statistic_types): [`outbound-rtp`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCOutboundRtpStreamStats), [`candidate-pair`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceCandidatePairStats), [`local-candidate`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceCandidateStats), [`remote-candidate`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceCandidateStats).

## Examples

This simple example obtains the statistics for an `RTCRtpSender` and updates an element's {{domxref("HTMLElement/innerText", "innerText")}} to display the current round trip time for requests on the sender.

```js
sender.getStats().then((stats) => {
  document.getElementById("currentRTT").innerText = stats.roundTripTime;
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API)
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}}
- {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver.getStats()")}}
- {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}}
