files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md, before:

---
title: id
slug: Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat: html.global_attributes.id
---

{{HTMLSidebar("Global_attributes")}}

The **`id`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes) defines an identifier (ID) which must be unique in the whole document. Its purpose is to identify the element when linking (using a [fragment identifier](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Identifying_resources_on_the_Web#fragment)), scripting, or styling (with {{glossary("CSS")}}).

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/attribute-id.html","tabbed-shorter")}}

> **Warning:** This attribute's value is an opaque string: this means that web authors should not rely on it to convey human-readable information (although having your IDs somewhat human-readable can be useful for code comprehension, e.g. consider `ticket-18659` versus `r45tgfe-freds&$@`).

`id`'s value must not contain {{glossary("whitespace")}} (spaces, tabs etc.). Browsers treat non-conforming IDs that contain whitespace as if the whitespace is part of the ID. In contrast to the [`class`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#class) attribute, which allows space-separated values, elements can only have one single ID value.

> **Note:** Technically, the value for an `id` attribute may contain any character, except {{glossary("whitespace")}} characters. However, to avoid inadvertent errors, only {{glossary("ASCII")}} letters, digits, `'_'`, and `'-'` should be used and the value for an `id` attribute should start with a letter. For example, `.` has a special meaning in CSS (it acts as a [class selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Class_selectors)). Unless you are careful to escape it in the CSS, it won't be recognized as part of the value of an `id` attribute. It is easy to forget to do this, resulting in bugs in your code that could be hard to detect.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- All [global attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes).
- {{domxref("Element.id")}} that reflects this attribute.
- The {{domxref("Document.getElementById")}} method.
- CSS [ID selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/ID_selectors).

Commit message:

Add recommendation for selecting HTML id attribute (#25292)
* Add recommendation for selecting HTML id attribute

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>

* Fix Markdownlint flaw

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

* Fix Markdownlint flaw

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>
Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/id/index.md, after:

---
title: id
slug: Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat: html.global_attributes.id
---

{{HTMLSidebar("Global_attributes")}}

The **`id`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes) defines an identifier (ID) which must be unique in the whole document. Its purpose is to identify the element when linking (using a [fragment identifier](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Identifying_resources_on_the_Web#fragment)), scripting, or styling (with {{glossary("CSS")}}).

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/attribute-id.html","tabbed-shorter")}}

> **Warning:** This attribute's value is an opaque string: this means that web authors should not rely on it to convey human-readable information (although having your IDs somewhat human-readable can be useful for code comprehension, e.g. consider `ticket-18659` versus `r45tgfe-freds&$@`).

An `id`'s value must not contain {{glossary("whitespace")}} (spaces, tabs, etc.). Browsers treat non-conforming IDs that contain whitespace as if the whitespace is part of the ID. In contrast to the [`class`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#class) attribute, which allows space-separated values, elements can only have one single ID value.

Technically, the value for an `id` attribute may contain any character, except {{glossary("whitespace")}} characters. However, to avoid inadvertent errors, only {{glossary("ASCII")}} letters, digits, `'_'`, and `'-'` should be used, and the value for an `id` attribute should start with a letter.

For example, `.` has a special meaning in CSS (it starts a [class selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Class_selectors)). While valid, unless you are careful to escape it when used as part of a CSS selector, it won't be recognized as part of the element's `id`. The same applies to the [`querySelector()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/querySelector) and [`querySelectorAll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/querySelectorAll) parameters, which use the same selector syntax. It is easy to forget to do this, resulting in bugs in your code that could be hard to detect.

Similarly, an `id` starting with a digit (E.g., `1234-322-678`) or a hyphen followed by a digit (E.g., `-123`), though valid in HTML, may lead to problems when used in CSS, JavaScript, and Web APIs:

- CSS [ID selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/ID_selectors) accept any CSS identifier. If the `id` starts with a digit or one hyphen immediately followed by a digit, both the hyphen and digit must be escaped in CSS. For example, while `id="544-383-3388"` and `id="-3Pi"` are valid in HTML, the `id` selectors must be escaped. The element with these `id` values can be targeted in CSS with `#\35 44-383-3388` and `#\2D \33 pi`.
- Any valid HTML `id` value is valid as an attribute selector in CSS and JavaScript. The selectors `[id="544-383-3388"]` and `[id="-3Pi"]` are valid.
- {{domxref("Document.querySelector()")}} and similar methods using CSS-selector-style queries will not find them unless you escape them. (See this [page](https://codepen.io/estelle/pen/jOvzbgb) for an example.)
- Such an `id` is not a valid JavaScript identifier. [Elements with IDs become global properties](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3434278/do-dom-tree-elements-with-ids-become-global-properties), but you cannot use non-identifier global properties as global variables — `1234` is not a global variable, and you have to use `window[1234]` instead to get the element with `id="1234"`. This is slightly inconvenient as you have to create the variable with an extra step: `const element = window[1234]`.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- All [global attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes).
- {{domxref("Element.id")}} that reflects this attribute.
- The {{domxref("Document.getElementById")}} method.
- CSS [ID selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/ID_selectors).
