files/en-us/web/api/federatedcredential/index.md, before:

---
title: FederatedCredential
slug: Web/API/FederatedCredential
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.FederatedCredential
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{APIRef("Credential Management API")}}

The **`FederatedCredential`** interface of the [Credential Management API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Credential_Management_API) provides information about credentials from a federated identity provider. A federated identity provider is an entity that a website trusts to correctly authenticate a user, and that provides an API for that purpose. [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/developers/specs/) is an example of a federated identity provider framework.

In browsers that support it, an instance of this interface may be passed in the `credential` member of the `init` object for global {{domxref('fetch()')}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Constructor

- {{domxref("FederatedCredential.FederatedCredential()","FederatedCredential()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Creates a new `FederatedCredential` object.

## Instance properties

_Inherits properties from its ancestor, {{domxref("Credential")}}._

- {{domxref("FederatedCredential.provider")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a string containing a credential's federated identity provider.
- {{domxref("FederatedCredential.protocol")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a string containing a credential's federated identity protocol.

### Event handlers

None.

## Instance methods

None.

## Examples

```js
const cred = new FederatedCredential({
  id,
  name,
  provider: "https://account.google.com",
  iconURL,
});

// Store it
navigator.credentials.store(cred).then(() => {
  // Do something else.
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Add fedcm docs (#23675)
* Add docs for FedCM API

* Add docs for FedCM API

* Add identity-credentials-get Permissions-Policy info

* Making fixes for agektmr comments

* Update files/en-us/glossary/replay_attack/index.md

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/fedcm_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>

* Change Referer header references to to Origin

* Making fixes for teoli2003 comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/api/federatedcredential/index.md, after:

---
title: FederatedCredential
slug: Web/API/FederatedCredential
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.FederatedCredential
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{APIRef("Credential Management API")}}

The **`FederatedCredential`** interface of the [Credential Management API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Credential_Management_API) provides information about credentials from a federated identity provider. A federated identity provider is an entity that a website trusts to correctly authenticate a user, and that provides an API for that purpose. [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/developers/specs/) is an example of a federated identity provider framework.

> **Note:** The [Federated Credential Management API (FedCM)](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API) provides a more complete solution for handling identity federation in the browser, and uses the {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} type.

In browsers that support it, an instance of this interface may be passed in the `credential` member of the `init` object for global {{domxref('fetch()')}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Constructor

- {{domxref("FederatedCredential.FederatedCredential()","FederatedCredential()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Creates a new `FederatedCredential` object.

## Instance properties

_Inherits properties from its ancestor, {{domxref("Credential")}}._

- {{domxref("FederatedCredential.provider")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a string containing a credential's federated identity provider.
- {{domxref("FederatedCredential.protocol")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a string containing a credential's federated identity protocol.

### Event handlers

None.

## Instance methods

None.

## Examples

```js
const cred = new FederatedCredential({
  id,
  name,
  provider: "https://account.google.com",
  iconURL,
});

// Store it
navigator.credentials.store(cred).then(() => {
  // Do something else.
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}
