files/en-us/web/api/mediadevices/selectaudiooutput/index.md, before:

---
title: MediaDevices.selectAudioOutput()
slug: Web/API/MediaDevices/selectAudioOutput
page-type: web-api-instance-method
tags:
  - API
  - MediaDevices
  - Method
  - Reference
  - WebRTC
  - selectAudioOutput
  - Experimental
browser-compat: api.MediaDevices.selectAudioOutput
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

The {{domxref("MediaDevices")}} method **`selectAudioOutput()`** prompts the user to select a specific audio output device, for example a speaker or headset.
On success, the returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} is resolved with a {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo")}} describing the selected device.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
selectAudioOutput()
selectAudioOutput(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{Optional_Inline}}

  - : An object that configures what device(s) may be offered in the user prompt.

    - `deviceId` {{Optional_Inline}}

      - : A string representing the id of the (only) device to display in the prompt (with default value: "").

        > **Note:** A user agent may choose to skip prompting the user if a specified non-null id was previously exposed to the user by `selectAudioOutput()` in an earlier session.
        > In this case the user agent may simply resolve with this device id, or a new id for the same device if it has changed.
        >
        > This is intended for applications that want to use persisted device ids.
        > The ids _must be passed_ through `selectAudioOutput()` successfully before they will work with {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId","setSinkId()")}}.

### Return value

A {{ jsxref("Promise") }} that receives a {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo")}} object when the promise is fulfilled.
The object describes the user-selected audio output device.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if the current page has not been granted the {{HTTPHeader("Feature-Policy/speaker-selection","speaker-selection")}} permission or the user closed the selection prompt without choosing a device.
- `NotFoundError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if there are no available audio output devices.
- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if there hasn't been a {{Glossary("transient activation")}} (you must trigger it from some kind of UI event).

## Security

[Transient user activation](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/User_activation) is required. The user has to interact with the page or a UI element in order for this feature to work.

Access to audio output devices is gated by the [Permissions API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Permissions_API).
The prompt will not be displayed if the `speaker-selection` permission has not been granted.

## Examples

Here's an example of using `selectAudioOutput()`, within a function that is triggered by a button click.
It outputs the selected [device IDs](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDeviceInfo/deviceId) and labels (if available) or an error message.

```js
document.querySelector('#myButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
  if (!navigator.mediaDevices.selectAudioOutput) {
    console.log('selectAudioOutput() not supported.');
    return;
  }

  // Display prompt and log selected device or error
  navigator.mediaDevices
    .selectAudioOutput()
    .then((device) => {
      console.log(`${device.kind}: ${device.label} id = ${device.deviceId}`);
    })
    .catch((err) => {
      console.error(`${err.name}: ${err.message}`);
    });
});
```

On selection of an output this might produce:

```bash
audiooutput: Realtek Digital Output (Realtek(R) Audio) id = 0wE6fURSZ20H0N2NbxqgowQJLWbwo+5ablCVVJwRM3k=
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [WebRTC](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) - the introductory page to the API

Commit message:

Update Feature-Policy to Permissions-Policy (#22439)

files/en-us/web/api/mediadevices/selectaudiooutput/index.md, after:

---
title: MediaDevices.selectAudioOutput()
slug: Web/API/MediaDevices/selectAudioOutput
page-type: web-api-instance-method
tags:
  - API
  - MediaDevices
  - Method
  - Reference
  - WebRTC
  - selectAudioOutput
  - Experimental
browser-compat: api.MediaDevices.selectAudioOutput
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

The {{domxref("MediaDevices")}} method **`selectAudioOutput()`** prompts the user to select a specific audio output device, for example a speaker or headset.
On success, the returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} is resolved with a {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo")}} describing the selected device.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
selectAudioOutput()
selectAudioOutput(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{Optional_Inline}}

  - : An object that configures what device(s) may be offered in the user prompt.

    - `deviceId` {{Optional_Inline}}

      - : A string representing the id of the (only) device to display in the prompt (with default value: "").

        > **Note:** A user agent may choose to skip prompting the user if a specified non-null id was previously exposed to the user by `selectAudioOutput()` in an earlier session.
        > In this case the user agent may simply resolve with this device id, or a new id for the same device if it has changed.
        >
        > This is intended for applications that want to use persisted device ids.
        > The ids _must be passed_ through `selectAudioOutput()` successfully before they will work with {{domxref("HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId","setSinkId()")}}.

### Return value

A {{ jsxref("Promise") }} that receives a {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo")}} object when the promise is fulfilled.
The object describes the user-selected audio output device.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if a `speaker-selection` [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy) is used to block use of audio outputs (in addition the popup for selecting an audio output won't be displayed), or the user closed the selection prompt without choosing a device.
- `NotFoundError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if there are no available audio output devices.
- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if there hasn't been a {{Glossary("transient activation")}} (you must trigger it from some kind of UI event).

## Security

[Transient user activation](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/User_activation) is required. The user has to interact with the page or a UI element for this feature to work.

Access to audio output devices is gated by the [Permissions API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Permissions_API).
The prompt will not be displayed if the `speaker-selection` permission has not been granted.

## Examples

Here's an example of using `selectAudioOutput()`, within a function that is triggered by a button click.
It outputs the selected [device IDs](/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDeviceInfo/deviceId) and labels (if available) or an error message.

```js
document.querySelector('#myButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
  if (!navigator.mediaDevices.selectAudioOutput) {
    console.log('selectAudioOutput() not supported.');
    return;
  }

  // Display prompt and log selected device or error
  navigator.mediaDevices
    .selectAudioOutput()
    .then((device) => {
      console.log(`${device.kind}: ${device.label} id = ${device.deviceId}`);
    })
    .catch((err) => {
      console.error(`${err.name}: ${err.message}`);
    });
});
```

On selection of an output this might produce:

```bash
audiooutput: Realtek Digital Output (Realtek(R) Audio) id = 0wE6fURSZ20H0N2NbxqgowQJLWbwo+5ablCVVJwRM3k=
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [WebRTC](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) - the introductory page to the API
