files/en-us/web/api/element/requestfullscreen/index.md, before:

---
title: "Element: requestFullscreen() method"
short-title: requestFullscreen()
slug: Web/API/Element/requestFullscreen
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Element.requestFullscreen
---

{{APIRef("Fullscreen API")}}

The **`Element.requestFullscreen()`**
method issues an asynchronous request to make the element be displayed in fullscreen
mode.

It's not guaranteed that the element will be put into full screen mode. If permission
to enter full screen mode is granted, the returned {{JSxRef("Promise")}} will resolve
and the element will receive a {{domxref("Element/fullscreenchange_event", "fullscreenchange")}} event to let it know that
it's now in full screen mode. If permission is denied, the promise is rejected and the
element receives a {{domxref("Element/fullscreenerror_event", "fullscreenerror")}} event instead. If the element has been
detached from the original document, then the document receives these events instead.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
requestFullscreen()
requestFullscreen(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object that controls the behavior of the transition to fullscreen mode. The available options are:
    - `navigationUI` {{optional_inline}}
      - : Controls whether or not to show navigation UI while the element is in fullscreen mode.
        The default value is `"auto"`, which indicates that the browser should decide what to do.
        - `"hide"`
          - : The browser's navigation interface will be hidden
            and the entire dimensions of the screen will be allocated to the display of the element.
        - `"show"`
          - : The browser will present page navigation controls and possibly other
            user interface; the dimensions of the element (and the perceived size of the screen) will be clamped
            to leave room for this user interface.
        - `"auto"`
          - : The browser will choose which of the above settings to apply.
            This is the default value.

### Return value

A {{JSxRef("Promise")}} which is resolved with a value of `undefined` when
the transition to full screen is complete.

### Exceptions

_Rather than throw a traditional exception, the `requestFullscreen()`
procedure announces error conditions by rejecting the `Promise` it has
returned. The rejection handler receives one of the following exception values:_

- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}

  - : The `TypeError` exception may be delivered in any of the following
    situations:

    - The document containing the element isn't fully active; that is, it's not the
      current active document.
    - The element is not contained by a document.
    - The element is not permitted to use the `fullscreen` feature,
      either because of [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy) configuration or other access control features.
    - The element and its document are the same node.

## Security

[Transient user activation](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/User_activation) is required. The user has to interact with the page or a UI element in order for this feature to work.

## Usage notes

### Compatible elements

An element that you wish to place into fullscreen mode has to meet a small number of
simple requirements:

- It must be one of the standard HTML elements or {{SVGElement("svg")}} or
  {{MathMLElement("math")}}.
- It is _not_ a {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} element.
- It must either be located within the top-level document or in an
  {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} which has the [`allowfullscreen`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#allowfullscreen)
  attribute applied to it.

Additionally, any set Permissions Policies must allow the use of this feature.

### Detecting fullscreen activation

You can determine whether or not your attempt to switch to fullscreen mode is
successful by using the {{jsxref("Promise")}} returned by
`requestFullscreen()`, as seen in the [examples](#examples) below.

To learn when other code has toggled fullscreen mode on and off, you should establish
listeners for the {{domxref("Document/fullscreenchange_event", "fullscreenchange")}} event on the {{domxref("Document")}}.
It's also important to listen for `fullscreenchange` to be aware when, for
example, the user manually toggles fullscreen mode, or when the user switches
applications, causing your application to temporarily exit fullscreen mode.

## Examples

### Requesting fullscreen mode

This function toggles the first {{HTMLElement("video")}} element found in the document
into and out of fullscreen mode.

```js
function toggleFullscreen() {
  let elem = document.querySelector("video");

  if (!document.fullscreenElement) {
    elem.requestFullscreen().catch((err) => {
      alert(
        `Error attempting to enable fullscreen mode: ${err.message} (${err.name})`
      );
    });
  } else {
    document.exitFullscreen();
  }
}
```

If the document isn't already in fullscreen mode—detected by looking to see if
{{domxref("document.fullscreenElement")}} has a value—we call the video's
`requestFullscreen()` method. We don't need to do anything special if
successful, but if the request fails, our promise's `catch()` handler
presents an alert with an appropriate error message.

If, on the other hand, fullscreen mode is already in effect, we call
{{domxref("document.exitFullscreen()")}} to disable fullscreen mode.

You can [see this example in action](https://fullscreen-requestfullscreen-demo.glitch.me/) or [view or remix the code](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/fullscreen-requestfullscreen-demo) on [Glitch](https://glitch.com/).

### Using navigationUI

In this example, the entire document is placed into fullscreen mode by calling
{{DOMxRef("Element.requestFullscreen", "requestFullscreen()")}} on the document's
{{DOMxRef("Document.documentElement")}}, which is the document's root
{{HTMLElement("html")}} element.

```js
let elem = document.documentElement;

elem
  .requestFullscreen({ navigationUI: "show" })
  .then(() => {})
  .catch((err) => {
    alert(
      `An error occurred while trying to switch into fullscreen mode: ${err.message} (${err.name})`
    );
  });
```

The promise's resolve handler does nothing, but if the promise is rejected, an error
message is displayed by calling {{DOMxRef("Window.alert", "alert()")}}.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API)
- {{DOMxRef("Document.exitFullscreen()")}}
- {{DOMxRef("Document.fullscreen")}}
- {{DOMxRef("Document.fullscreenElement")}}
- {{CSSxRef(":fullscreen")}}
- [`allowfullscreen`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#allowfullscreen)

Commit message:

Add new and update existing popover api docs (#26413)
* Add new and update existing popover api docs

* fixes to attribute links

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Update files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

* Making fixes according to review comments

* couple of broken link fixes

* folder casing fix

* folder casing fix

* Updates to answer 2nd round of wbamberg comments

---------

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

files/en-us/web/api/element/requestfullscreen/index.md, after:

---
title: "Element: requestFullscreen() method"
short-title: requestFullscreen()
slug: Web/API/Element/requestFullscreen
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Element.requestFullscreen
---

{{APIRef("Fullscreen API")}}

The **`Element.requestFullscreen()`**
method issues an asynchronous request to make the element be displayed in fullscreen
mode.

It's not guaranteed that the element will be put into full screen mode. If permission
to enter full screen mode is granted, the returned {{JSxRef("Promise")}} will resolve
and the element will receive a {{domxref("Element/fullscreenchange_event", "fullscreenchange")}} event to let it know that
it's now in full screen mode. If permission is denied, the promise is rejected and the
element receives a {{domxref("Element/fullscreenerror_event", "fullscreenerror")}} event instead. If the element has been
detached from the original document, then the document receives these events instead.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
requestFullscreen()
requestFullscreen(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object that controls the behavior of the transition to fullscreen mode. The available options are:
    - `navigationUI` {{optional_inline}}
      - : Controls whether or not to show navigation UI while the element is in fullscreen mode.
        The default value is `"auto"`, which indicates that the browser should decide what to do.
        - `"hide"`
          - : The browser's navigation interface will be hidden
            and the entire dimensions of the screen will be allocated to the display of the element.
        - `"show"`
          - : The browser will present page navigation controls and possibly other
            user interface; the dimensions of the element (and the perceived size of the screen) will be clamped
            to leave room for this user interface.
        - `"auto"`
          - : The browser will choose which of the above settings to apply.
            This is the default value.

### Return value

A {{JSxRef("Promise")}} which is resolved with a value of `undefined` when
the transition to full screen is complete.

### Exceptions

_Rather than throw a traditional exception, the `requestFullscreen()`
procedure announces error conditions by rejecting the `Promise` it has
returned. The rejection handler receives one of the following exception values:_

- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}

  - : The `TypeError` exception may be delivered in any of the following
    situations:

    - The document containing the element isn't fully active; that is, it's not the
      current active document.
    - The element is not contained by a document.
    - The element is not permitted to use the `fullscreen` feature,
      either because of [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy) configuration or other access control features.
    - The element and its document are the same node.
    - The element is a [popover](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) that is already being shown via {{domxref("HTMLElement.showPopover()")}}.

## Security

[Transient user activation](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/User_activation) is required. The user has to interact with the page or a UI element in order for this feature to work.

## Usage notes

### Compatible elements

An element that you wish to place into fullscreen mode has to meet a small number of
simple requirements:

- It must be one of the standard HTML elements or {{SVGElement("svg")}} or
  {{MathMLElement("math")}}.
- It is _not_ a {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} element.
- It must either be located within the top-level document or in an
  {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} which has the [`allowfullscreen`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#allowfullscreen)
  attribute applied to it.

Additionally, any set Permissions Policies must allow the use of this feature.

### Detecting fullscreen activation

You can determine whether or not your attempt to switch to fullscreen mode is
successful by using the {{jsxref("Promise")}} returned by
`requestFullscreen()`, as seen in the [examples](#examples) below.

To learn when other code has toggled fullscreen mode on and off, you should establish
listeners for the {{domxref("Document/fullscreenchange_event", "fullscreenchange")}} event on the {{domxref("Document")}}.
It's also important to listen for `fullscreenchange` to be aware when, for
example, the user manually toggles fullscreen mode, or when the user switches
applications, causing your application to temporarily exit fullscreen mode.

## Examples

### Requesting fullscreen mode

This function toggles the first {{HTMLElement("video")}} element found in the document
into and out of fullscreen mode.

```js
function toggleFullscreen() {
  let elem = document.querySelector("video");

  if (!document.fullscreenElement) {
    elem.requestFullscreen().catch((err) => {
      alert(
        `Error attempting to enable fullscreen mode: ${err.message} (${err.name})`
      );
    });
  } else {
    document.exitFullscreen();
  }
}
```

If the document isn't already in fullscreen mode—detected by looking to see if
{{domxref("document.fullscreenElement")}} has a value—we call the video's
`requestFullscreen()` method. We don't need to do anything special if
successful, but if the request fails, our promise's `catch()` handler
presents an alert with an appropriate error message.

If, on the other hand, fullscreen mode is already in effect, we call
{{domxref("document.exitFullscreen()")}} to disable fullscreen mode.

You can [see this example in action](https://fullscreen-requestfullscreen-demo.glitch.me/) or [view or remix the code](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/fullscreen-requestfullscreen-demo) on [Glitch](https://glitch.com/).

### Using navigationUI

In this example, the entire document is placed into fullscreen mode by calling
{{DOMxRef("Element.requestFullscreen", "requestFullscreen()")}} on the document's
{{DOMxRef("Document.documentElement")}}, which is the document's root
{{HTMLElement("html")}} element.

```js
let elem = document.documentElement;

elem
  .requestFullscreen({ navigationUI: "show" })
  .then(() => {})
  .catch((err) => {
    alert(
      `An error occurred while trying to switch into fullscreen mode: ${err.message} (${err.name})`
    );
  });
```

The promise's resolve handler does nothing, but if the promise is rejected, an error
message is displayed by calling {{DOMxRef("Window.alert", "alert()")}}.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API)
- {{DOMxRef("Document.exitFullscreen()")}}
- {{DOMxRef("Document.fullscreen")}}
- {{DOMxRef("Document.fullscreenElement")}}
- {{CSSxRef(":fullscreen")}}
- [`allowfullscreen`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#allowfullscreen)
