files/en-us/web/api/url/origin/index.md, before:

---
title: URL.origin
slug: Web/API/URL/origin
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.URL.origin
---

{{APIRef("URL API")}}

The **`origin`** read-only property of
the {{domxref("URL")}} interface returns a string containing the
Unicode serialization of the origin of the represented URL.

The exact structure
varies depending on the type of URL:

- For `http` or `https` URLs, the scheme followed by
  `'://'`, followed by the domain, followed by `':'`, followed by
  the port (the default port, `80` and `443` respectively, if
  explicitly specified).
- For `file:` URLs, the value is browser dependent.
- for `blob:` URLs, the origin of the URL following `blob:` will
  be used. For example, `"blob:https://mozilla.org"` will be returned as
  `"https://mozilla.org".`

{{AvailableInWorkers}}

## Value

A string.

## Examples

```js
const url = new URL("blob:https://mozilla.org:443/")
console.log(url.origin); // Logs 'https://mozilla.org'
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- The {{domxref("URL")}} interface

Commit message:

Update URL.origin description and example usage (#24792)
* fix: typo in URL.origin example

The port should not be removed, as suggested by the example

* chore: update description and examples

* Update files/en-us/web/api/url/origin/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/url/origin/index.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Jean-Yves Perrier <jypenator@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/api/url/origin/index.md, after:

---
title: URL.origin
slug: Web/API/URL/origin
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.URL.origin
---

{{APIRef("URL API")}}

The **`origin`** read-only property of
the {{domxref("URL")}} interface returns a string containing the
Unicode serialization of the origin of the represented URL.

The exact structure
varies depending on the type of URL:

- For `http` or `https` URLs, the scheme followed by
  `'://'`, followed by the domain, followed by `':'`, followed by
  the port (if explicitly specified, unless it is the default port - `80` and `443` respectively).
- For `file:` URLs, the value is browser dependent.
- for `blob:` URLs, the origin of the URL following `blob:` will
  be used. For example, `"blob:https://mozilla.org"` will be returned as
  `"https://mozilla.org".`

{{AvailableInWorkers}}

## Value

A string.

## Examples

```js
const url = new URL("blob:https://mozilla.org:443/")
console.log(url.origin); // Logs 'https://mozilla.org'

const url = new URL("http://localhost:80/")
console.log(url.origin); // Logs 'http://localhost'

const url = new URL("https://mozilla.org:8080/")
console.log(url.origin); // Logs 'https://mozilla.org:8080'
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- The {{domxref("URL")}} interface
