files/en-us/web/api/stylesheetlist/index.md, before:

---
title: StyleSheetList
slug: Web/API/StyleSheetList
page-type: web-api-interface
tags:
  - API
  - CSSOM
  - StyleSheetList
browser-compat: api.StyleSheetList
---

{{APIRef("CSSOM")}}

The `StyleSheetList` interface represents a list of {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} objects. An instance of this object can be returned by {{domxref("Document.styleSheets")}}.

It is an array-like object but can't be iterated over using {{jsxref("Array")}} methods. However it can be iterated over in a standard {{jsxref("Statements/for", "for")}} loop over its indices, or converted to an {{jsxref("Array")}}.

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("StyleSheetList.length")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the number of {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} objects in the collection.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("StyleSheetList.item()")}}
  - : Returns the {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} object at the index passed in, or `null` if no item exists for that index.

## Examples

### Get CSSStyleSheet objects with for loop

```js
const styleSheet = [];
const styleSheets = document.styleSheets;

for (let i = 0; i < styleSheets.length; i++) {
  styleSheet.push(styleSheets[i]);
}
```

### Get all CSS rules for the document using Array methods

```js
const allCSS = [...document.styleSheets]
  .map((styleSheet) => {
    try {
      return [...styleSheet.cssRules]
        .map((rule) => rule.cssText)
        .join('');
    } catch (e) {
      console.log('Access to stylesheet %s is denied. Ignoring…', styleSheet.href);
    }
  })
  .filter(Boolean)
  .join('\n');
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Add a note to a few legacy-ish list interfaces (#22833)
* fix CSSRuleList item() example

* fix CSSRuleList item() example

* Update index.md

* Rewording item() example

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Rewording item() example

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Rewording item() example

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* add legacy note to old readonly collection interfaces

* fix linting issues

* Update files/en-us/web/api/cssrulelist/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/cssrulelist/item/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/cssstyledeclaration/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/domtokenlist/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/filelist/index.md

* Apply suggestions from code review

* rephrase the history of read-only collection interfaces note

* remove read-only collections history note

remove the note about the history of creating read-only interfaces from interfaces that was designed to do more work than just achieving unmodifiable list

* fix linting issue

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>
Co-authored-by: Michael[tm] Smith <mike@w3.org>

files/en-us/web/api/stylesheetlist/index.md, after:

---
title: StyleSheetList
slug: Web/API/StyleSheetList
page-type: web-api-interface
tags:
  - API
  - CSSOM
  - StyleSheetList
browser-compat: api.StyleSheetList
---

{{APIRef("CSSOM")}}

The `StyleSheetList` interface represents a list of {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} objects. An instance of this object can be returned by {{domxref("Document.styleSheets")}}.

It is an array-like object but can't be iterated over using {{jsxref("Array")}} methods. However it can be iterated over in a standard {{jsxref("Statements/for", "for")}} loop over its indices, or converted to an {{jsxref("Array")}}.

> **Note:** This interface was an [attempt to create an unmodifiable list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74630989/why-use-domstringlist-rather-than-an-array/74641156#74641156) and only continues to be supported to not break code that's already using it. Modern APIs use types that wrap around ECMAScript array types instead, so you can treat them like ECMAScript arrays, and at the same time impose additional semantics on their usage (such as making their items read-only).

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("StyleSheetList.length")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns the number of {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} objects in the collection.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("StyleSheetList.item()")}}
  - : Returns the {{domxref("CSSStyleSheet")}} object at the index passed in, or `null` if no item exists for that index.

## Examples

### Get CSSStyleSheet objects with for loop

```js
const styleSheet = [];
const styleSheets = document.styleSheets;

for (let i = 0; i < styleSheets.length; i++) {
  styleSheet.push(styleSheets[i]);
}
```

### Get all CSS rules for the document using Array methods

```js
const allCSS = [...document.styleSheets]
  .map((styleSheet) => {
    try {
      return [...styleSheet.cssRules]
        .map((rule) => rule.cssText)
        .join('');
    } catch (e) {
      console.log('Access to stylesheet %s is denied. Ignoring…', styleSheet.href);
    }
  })
  .filter(Boolean)
  .join('\n');
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}
