files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/date/valueof/index.md, before:

---
title: Date.prototype.valueOf()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/valueOf
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Date.valueOf
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`valueOf()`** method returns the primitive value of a
{{jsxref("Date")}} object.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/date-valueof.html")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
valueOf()
```

### Return value

The number of milliseconds between 1 January 1970 00:00:00 UTC and the given date, or {{jsxref("NaN")}} in case of an invalid date.

## Description

The `valueOf()` method returns the primitive value of a {{jsxref("Date")}}
object as a number data type, the number of milliseconds since midnight 01 January, 1970
UTC.

This method is functionally equivalent to the {{jsxref("Date.prototype.getTime()")}}
method.

This method is usually called internally by JavaScript and not explicitly in code.

## Examples

### Using valueOf()

```js
const x = new Date(56, 6, 17);
const myVar = x.valueOf(); // assigns -424713600000 to myVar
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Object.prototype.valueOf()")}}
- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.getTime()")}}

Commit message:

Avoid using non-standard date string format, better date string description (#27005)
* Avoid using non-standard date string format, better date string description

* Fixes

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/date/valueof/index.md, after:

---
title: Date.prototype.valueOf()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/valueOf
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Date.valueOf
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`valueOf()`** method of {{jsxref("Date")}} instances returns the number of milliseconds for this date since the [epoch](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date#the_epoch_timestamps_and_invalid_date), which is defined as the midnight at the beginning of January 1, 1970, UTC.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/date-valueof.html")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
valueOf()
```

### Return value

A number representing the [timestamp](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date#the_epoch_timestamps_and_invalid_date), in milliseconds, of this date. Returns `NaN` if the date is [invalid](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date#the_epoch_timestamps_and_invalid_date).

## Description

The `valueOf()` method is part of the [type coercion protocol](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#type_coercion). Because `Date` has a [`[@@toPrimitive]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/@@toPrimitive) method, that method always takes priority over `valueOf()` when a `Date` object is implicitly [coerced to a number](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number#number_coercion). However, `Date.prototype[@@toPrimitive]()` still calls `this.valueOf()` internally.

The {{jsxref("Date")}} object overrides the {{jsxref("Object/valueOf", "valueOf()")}} method of {{jsxref("Object")}}. `Date.prototype.valueOf()` returns the timestamp of the date, which is functionally equivalent to the {{jsxref("Date.prototype.getTime()")}} method.

## Examples

### Using valueOf()

```js
const d = new Date(0); // 1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z
console.log(d.valueOf()); // 0
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Object.prototype.valueOf()")}}
- {{jsxref("Date.prototype.getTime()")}}
