files/en-us/web/api/htmlmediaelement/setsinkid/index.md, before:

---
title: HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId()
slug: Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/setSinkId
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

The **`HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId()`** method sets the ID of
the audio device to use for output and returns a [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise).
This only works when the application is authorized to use the specified device.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
setSinkId(sinkId)
```

### Parameters

- `sinkId`
  - : The {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo.deviceId")}} of the audio output device.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to {{jsxref("undefined")}}.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if a `speaker-selection` [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy) is used to block use of audio outputs.
- `NotFoundError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if the `deviceId` does not match any audio output device.
- `AbortError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if switching the audio output device to the new audio device failed.

## Examples

```js
const devices = await navigator.mediaDevices.enumerateDevices();
const audioDevice = devices.find((device) => device.kind === 'audiooutput');
const audio = document.createElement('audio');
await audio.setSinkId(audioDevice.deviceId);
console.log(`Audio is being played on ${audio.sinkId}`);
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Audio output device API - cross linking and security sections (#24619)
* Media elements/devices select output - a little cross linking

* Add security requirements sections

* Add an API overview page

* Add API to groupdata

* Add notes about how to monitor for changes

* Update files/en-us/web/api/audio_output_devices_api/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

files/en-us/web/api/htmlmediaelement/setsinkid/index.md, after:

---
title: HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId()
slug: Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/setSinkId
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

The **`HTMLMediaElement.setSinkId()`** method sets the ID of the audio device to use for output and returns a [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise).
This only works when the application is authorized to use the specified device.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
setSinkId(sinkId)
```

### Parameters

- `sinkId`
  - : The {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo.deviceId")}} of the audio output device.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to {{jsxref("undefined")}}.

### Exceptions

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if a [`speaker-selection`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy/speaker-selection) [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy) is used to block use of audio outputs.
- `NotFoundError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if the `deviceId` does not match any audio output device.
- `AbortError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Returned if switching the audio output device to the new audio device failed.

## Security requirements

Access to the API is subject to the following constraints:

- The method must be called in a [secure context](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).
- Access may be gated by the [`speaker-selection`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy/midi) HTTP [Permission Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Feature_Policy).

## Examples

```js
const devices = await navigator.mediaDevices.enumerateDevices();
const audioDevice = devices.find((device) => device.kind === 'audiooutput');
const audio = document.createElement('audio');
await audio.setSinkId(audioDevice.deviceId);
console.log(`Audio is being played on ${audio.sinkId}`);
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

[`HTMLMediaElement.sinkId`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/sinkId)
