files/en-us/web/api/idblocaleawarekeyrange/index.md, before:

---
title: IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange
slug: Web/API/IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange
page-type: web-api-interface
tags:
  - API
  - Database
  - Experimental
  - IDBKeyRange
  - IndexedDB
  - Interface
  - Reference
  - Storage
  - Non-standard
browser-compat: api.IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange
---

{{APIRef("IndexedDB")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{Non-standard_Header}}

The **`IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange`** interface of the [IndexedDB API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API) is a Firefox-specific version of {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}} — it functions in exactly the same fashion, and has the same properties and methods, but it is intended for use with {{domxref("IDBIndex")}} objects when the original index had a `locale` value specified upon its creation (see [`createIndex()`'s optionalParameters](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IDBObjectStore/createIndex#parameters)) — that is, it has [locale aware sorting](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB#locale-aware_sorting) enabled.

## Instance methods

_This interface inherits all the methods of its parent interface, {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}._

## Instance properties

_This interface inherits all the properties of its parent interface, {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}._

Bear in mind however that `IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange` has its own implementation of {{domxref("IDBKeyRange.bound")}}. This is because when you use `bound()`, it checks if lower bound < upper bound, and throws an exception if that's not the case. With locale-aware indexes, the meaning of < depends on the locale, so for example in Lithuanian Y is sorted between I and K. The only difference between `IDBKeyRange` and `IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange` is that the latter doesn't do the aforementioned check.

Developers should always use `IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange` when dealing with locale-aware indexes.

## Examples

```js
function displayData() {
  const keyRangeValue = IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange.bound("A", "F");

  const transaction = db.transaction(['fThings'], 'readonly');
  const objectStore = transaction.objectStore('fThings');

  const myIndex = objectStore.index('lName');
  myIndex.openCursor(keyRangeValue).onsuccess = (event) => {
    const cursor = event.target.result;
    if (cursor) {
      const tableRow = document.createElement('tr');
      tableRow.innerHTML = `<td>${cursor.value.id}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.lName}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.fName}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.jTitle}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.company}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.eMail}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.phone}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.age}</td>`;
      tableEntry.appendChild(tableRow);

      cursor.continue();
    } else {
      console.log('Entries all displayed.');
    }
  };
};
```

## Specifications

Not currently part of any specification.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using IndexedDB](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB)
- Starting transactions: {{domxref("IDBDatabase")}}
- Using transactions: {{domxref("IDBTransaction")}}
- Setting a range of keys: {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}
- Retrieving and making changes to your data: {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}}
- Using cursors: {{domxref("IDBCursor")}}
- Reference example: [To-do Notifications](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/to-do-notifications) ([View the example live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/to-do-notifications/)).

Commit message:

Make mentions to IDBObjectStore.createIndex() clearer (#23362)
* Make mentions to IDBObjectStore.createIndex() clearer

* Give clearer name "options" to the 3rd parameter of createIndex()
* Make mentions to the parameter clear that they are mentioning a parameter

* Update files/en-us/web/api/idbindex/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/idbindex/index.md

* Minor rewordings

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

files/en-us/web/api/idblocaleawarekeyrange/index.md, after:

---
title: IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange
slug: Web/API/IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange
page-type: web-api-interface
tags:
  - API
  - Database
  - Experimental
  - IDBKeyRange
  - IndexedDB
  - Interface
  - Reference
  - Storage
  - Non-standard
browser-compat: api.IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange
---

{{APIRef("IndexedDB")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{Non-standard_Header}}

The **`IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange`** interface of the [IndexedDB API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API) is a Firefox-specific version of {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}} — it functions in exactly the same fashion, and has the same properties and methods, but it is intended for use with {{domxref("IDBIndex")}} objects when the original index had a `locale` value specified upon its creation (see the [`options`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IDBObjectStore/createIndex#options) parameter to [`IDBObjectStore.createIndex()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IDBObjectStore/createIndex)) — that is, it has [locale aware sorting](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB#locale-aware_sorting) enabled.

## Instance methods

_This interface inherits all the methods of its parent interface, {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}._

## Instance properties

_This interface inherits all the properties of its parent interface, {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}._

Bear in mind however that `IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange` has its own implementation of {{domxref("IDBKeyRange.bound")}}. This is because when you use `bound()`, it checks if lower bound < upper bound, and throws an exception if that's not the case. With locale-aware indexes, the meaning of < depends on the locale, so for example in Lithuanian Y is sorted between I and K. The only difference between `IDBKeyRange` and `IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange` is that the latter doesn't do the aforementioned check.

Developers should always use `IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange` when dealing with locale-aware indexes.

## Examples

```js
function displayData() {
  const keyRangeValue = IDBLocaleAwareKeyRange.bound("A", "F");

  const transaction = db.transaction(['fThings'], 'readonly');
  const objectStore = transaction.objectStore('fThings');

  const myIndex = objectStore.index('lName');
  myIndex.openCursor(keyRangeValue).onsuccess = (event) => {
    const cursor = event.target.result;
    if (cursor) {
      const tableRow = document.createElement('tr');
      tableRow.innerHTML = `<td>${cursor.value.id}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.lName}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.fName}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.jTitle}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.company}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.eMail}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.phone}</td>`
                         + `<td>${cursor.value.age}</td>`;
      tableEntry.appendChild(tableRow);

      cursor.continue();
    } else {
      console.log('Entries all displayed.');
    }
  };
};
```

## Specifications

Not currently part of any specification.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using IndexedDB](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB)
- Starting transactions: {{domxref("IDBDatabase")}}
- Using transactions: {{domxref("IDBTransaction")}}
- Setting a range of keys: {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}
- Retrieving and making changes to your data: {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}}
- Using cursors: {{domxref("IDBCursor")}}
- Reference example: [To-do Notifications](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/to-do-notifications) ([View the example live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/to-do-notifications/)).
