files/en-us/web/css/cursor/index.md, before:

---
title: cursor
slug: Web/CSS/cursor
page-type: css-property
browser-compat: css.properties.cursor
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`cursor`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the mouse cursor, if any, to show when the mouse pointer is over an element.

The cursor setting should inform users of the mouse operations that can be performed at the current location, including: text selection, activating help or context menus, copying content, resizing tables, and so on.
You can specify either the _type_ of cursor using a keyword, or load a specific icon to use (with optional fallback images and mandatory keyword as a final fallback).

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/cursor.html")}}

## Syntax

```css
/* Keyword value */
cursor: auto;
cursor: pointer;
/* … */
cursor: zoom-out;

/* URL with mandatory keyword fallback */
cursor: url(hand.cur), pointer;

/* URL and coordinates, with mandatory keyword fallback */
cursor: url(cursor_1.png) 4 12, auto;
cursor: url(cursor_2.png) 2 2, pointer;

/* URLs and fallback URLs (some with coordinates), with mandatory keyword fallback */
cursor: url(cursor_1.svg) 4 5, url(cursor_2.svg), /* … ,*/ url(cursor_n.cur) 5 5,
  progress;

/* Global values */
cursor: inherit;
cursor: initial;
cursor: revert;
cursor: revert-layer;
cursor: unset;
```

The `cursor` property is specified as zero or more `<url>` values, separated by commas, followed by a single mandatory keyword value.
Each `<url>` should point to an image file.
The browser will try to load the first image specified, falling back to the next if it can't, and falling back to the keyword value if no images could be loaded (or if none were specified).

Each `<url>` may be optionally followed by a pair of space-separated numbers, which set the `<x>` and `<y>` coordinates of the cursor's hotspot relative to the top-left corner of the image.

### Values

- `<url>` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A `url()` or a comma separated list `url(), url(), …`, pointing to an image file.
    More than one {{cssxref("url", "url()")}} may be provided as fallbacks, in case some cursor image types are not supported.
    A non-URL fallback (one or more of the keyword values) _must_ be at the end of the fallback list.
- `<x>`, `<y>` {{optional_inline}}

  - : Optional x- and y-coordinates indicating the cursor hotspot; the precise position within the cursor that is being pointed to.

    The numbers are in units of image pixels.
    They are relative to the top left corner of the image, which corresponds to "`0 0`", and are clamped within the boundaries of the cursor image.
    If these values are not specified, they may be read from the file itself, and will otherwise default to the top-left corner of the image.

- `keyword`

  - : A keyword value _must_ be specified, indicating either the type of cursor to use, or the fallback cursor to use if all specified icons fail to load.

    The available keywords are listed in the table below. Other than `none`, which means no cursor, there is an image showing how the cursors used to be rendered. You can hover your mouse over the table rows to see the effect of the different cursor keyword values on your browser today.

    <table class="standard-table">
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th scope="col">Category</th>
          <th scope="col">Keyword</th>
          <th scope="col">Example</th>
          <th scope="col">Description</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr style="cursor: auto">
          <th rowspan="3" scope="row">General</th>
          <td><code>auto</code></td>
          <td></td>
          <td>
            The UA will determine the cursor to display based on the current context. E.g., equivalent to <code>text</code> when hovering text.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: default">
          <td><code>default</code></td>
          <td><img src="default.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left" /></td>
          <td>The platform-dependent default cursor. Typically an arrow.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: none">
          <td><code>none</code></td>
          <td></td>
          <td>No cursor is rendered.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: context-menu">
          <th rowspan="5" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Links &#x26; status</th>
          <td><code>context-menu</code></td>
          <td><img alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left slightly obscuring a menu icon" src="context-menu.png" /></td>
          <td>A context menu is available.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: help">
          <td><code>help</code></td>
          <td><img src="help.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left next to a question mark" /></td>
          <td>Help information is available.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: pointer">
          <td><code>pointer</code></td>
          <td><img src="pointer.gif" alt="right hand with an index finger pointing up" /></td>
          <td>
            The cursor is a pointer that indicates a link. Typically an image of a pointing hand.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: progress">
          <td><code>progress</code></td>
          <td><img src="progress.gif" alt="wide arrow and hour glass" /></td>
          <td>
            The program is busy in the background, but the user can still interact
            with the interface (in contrast to <code>wait</code>).
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: wait">
          <td><code>wait</code></td>
          <td><img src="wait.gif" alt="hour glass" /></td>
          <td>
            The program is busy, and the user can't interact with the interface (in contrast to <code>progress</code>).
            Sometimes an image of an hourglass or a watch.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: cell">
          <th rowspan="4" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Selection</th>
          <td><code>cell</code></td>
          <td><img src="cell.gif" alt="wide plus symbol" /></td>
          <td>The table cell or set of cells can be selected.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: crosshair">
          <td><code>crosshair</code></td>
          <td><img src="crosshair.gif" alt="plus symbol composed of two thing lines." /></td>
          <td>Cross cursor, often used to indicate selection in a bitmap.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: text">
          <td><code>text</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="text.gif" alt="vertical i-beam" /></td>
          <td>The text can be selected. Typically the shape of an I-beam.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: vertical-text">
          <td><code>vertical-text</code></td>
          <td><img alt="horizontal i-beam" src="vertical-text.gif" /></td>
          <td>
            The vertical text can be selected. Typically the shape of a sideways I-beam.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: alias">
          <th rowspan="7" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Drag &#x26; drop</th>
          <td><code>alias</code></td>
          <td><img src="alias.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left partially obscuring a smaller folder icon with a curved arrow pointing up and to the right"/></td>
          <td>An alias or shortcut is to be created.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: copy">
          <td><code>copy</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="copy.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left partially obscuring a smaller folder icon with a plus sign" /></td>
          <td>Something is to be copied.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: move">
          <td><code>move</code></td>
          <td><img src="move.gif" alt="plus sign made of two thin lines. The four points are small arrows facing out" /></td>
          <td>Something is to be moved.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: no-drop">
          <td><code>no-drop</code></td>
          <td>
            <img src="no-drop.gif" alt="pointer icon and a not allowed icon" />
          </td>
          <td>
            An item may not be dropped at the current location.<br />[Firefox bug 275173](https://bugzil.la/275173):
            On Windows and macOS, <code>no-drop</code> is the same as <code>not-allowed</code>.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: not-allowed">
          <td><code>not-allowed</code></td>
          <td><img alt="Not allowed icon, which is a circle with a line through it" src="not-allowed.gif" /></td>
          <td>The requested action will not be carried out.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: grab">
          <td><code>grab</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="grab.gif" alt="fully opened hand icon" /></td>
          <td>Something can be grabbed (dragged to be moved).</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: grabbing">
          <td><code>grabbing</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="grabbing.gif" alt="closed hand icon, of the back of the hand"/></td>
          <td>Something is being grabbed (dragged to be moved).</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: all-scroll">
          <th rowspan="15" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">
            Resizing &#x26; scrolling
          </th>
          <td><code>all-scroll</code></td>
          <td><img alt="icon of a medium size dot with four triangles around it." src="all-scroll.gif" /></td>
          <td>
            Something can be scrolled in any direction (panned).<br />[Firefox bug 275174](https://bugzil.la/275174):
            On Windows, <code>all-scroll</code> is the same as <code>move</code>.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: col-resize">
          <td><code>col-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="col-resize.gif" src="col-resize.gif" alt="two narrow parallel vertical lines with a small arrow pointing left and another pointing right" /></td>
          <td>
            The item/column can be resized horizontally.
            Often rendered as arrows pointing left and right with a vertical bar separating them.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: row-resize">
          <td><code>row-resize</code></td>
          <td><img src="row-resize.gif" alt="two narrow parallel horizontal lines with a small arrow pointing up and another pointing down" /></td>
          <td>
            The item/row can be resized vertically.
            Often rendered as arrows pointing up and down with a horizontal bar separating them.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: n-resize">
          <td><code>n-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing towards the top"
              src="n-resize.gif"
              style="border-style: solid; border-width: 0px"
            />
          </td>
          <td rowspan="8" style="cursor: auto">
            Some edge is to be moved. For example, the <code>se-resize</code> cursor is used when the movement starts from the <em>south-east</em> corner of the box.<br />
            In some environments, an equivalent bidirectional resize cursor is shown.
            For example, <code>n-resize</code> and <code>s-resize</code> are the same as <code>ns-resize</code>.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: e-resize">
          <td><code>e-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing towards the right"
              src="e-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: s-resize">
          <td><code>s-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing down"
              src="s-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: w-resize">
          <td><code>w-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing towards the left"
              src="w-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: ne-resize">
          <td><code>ne-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing top-right"
              src="ne-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: nw-resize">
          <td><code>nw-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing top-left"
              src="nw-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: se-resize">
          <td><code>se-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing bottom-right"
              src="se-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: sw-resize">
          <td><code>sw-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing bottom-left"
              src="sw-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: ew-resize">
          <td><code>ew-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing left and right" class="default" src="3-resize.gif" /></td>
          <td rowspan="4" style="cursor: auto">Bidirectional resize cursor.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: ns-resize">
          <td><code>ns-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing up and down" class="default" src="6-resize.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: nesw-resize">
          <td><code>nesw-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing both to the top-right and bottom-left" class="default" src="1-resize.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: nwse-resize">
          <td><code>nwse-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing both to the top-left and bottom-right" class="default" src="4-resize.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: zoom-in">
          <th rowspan="2" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Zooming</th>
          <td><code>zoom-in</code></td>
          <td><img alt="magnifying glass with a plus sign" class="default" src="zoom-in.gif" /></td>
          <td rowspan="2" style="cursor: auto">
            <p>Something can be zoomed (magnified) in or out.</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: zoom-out">
          <td><code>zoom-out</code></td>
          <td><img alt="magnifying glass with a minus sign" class="default" src="zoom-out.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Usage notes

### Icon size limits

While the specification does not limit the `cursor` image size, {{Glossary("user agent", "user agents")}} commonly restrict them to avoid potential misuse.
For example, on Firefox and Chromium cursor images are restricted to 128x128 pixels by default, but it is recommended to limit the cursor image size to 32x32 pixels. Cursor changes using images that are larger than the user-agent maximum supported size will generally just be ignored.

### Supported image file formats

User agents are required by the specification to support PNG files, SVG v1.1 files in secure static mode that contain a natural size, and any other non-animated image file formats that they support for images in other properties.
Desktop browsers also broadly support the `.cur` file format.

The specification further indicates that user agents _should_ also support SVG v1.1 files in secure animated mode that contain a natural size, along with any other animated images file formats they support for images in other properties.
User agents _may_ support both static and animated SVG images that do not contain a natural size.

### Other notes

Cursor changes that intersect toolbar areas are commonly blocked to avoid spoofing.

## Examples

### Setting cursor types

```css
.foo {
  cursor: crosshair;
}

.bar {
  cursor: zoom-in;
}

/* A fallback keyword value is required when using a URL */
.baz {
  cursor: url("hyper.cur"), auto;
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{cssxref("pointer-events")}}
- {{cssxref("url", "url()")}} function

Commit message:

Add a note about `cursor` behavior on iPadOS (#25392)

files/en-us/web/css/cursor/index.md, after:

---
title: cursor
slug: Web/CSS/cursor
page-type: css-property
browser-compat: css.properties.cursor
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`cursor`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the mouse cursor, if any, to show when the mouse pointer is over an element.

The cursor setting should inform users of the mouse operations that can be performed at the current location, including: text selection, activating help or context menus, copying content, resizing tables, and so on.
You can specify either the _type_ of cursor using a keyword, or load a specific icon to use (with optional fallback images and mandatory keyword as a final fallback).

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/cursor.html")}}

## Syntax

```css
/* Keyword value */
cursor: auto;
cursor: pointer;
/* … */
cursor: zoom-out;

/* URL with mandatory keyword fallback */
cursor: url(hand.cur), pointer;

/* URL and coordinates, with mandatory keyword fallback */
cursor: url(cursor_1.png) 4 12, auto;
cursor: url(cursor_2.png) 2 2, pointer;

/* URLs and fallback URLs (some with coordinates), with mandatory keyword fallback */
cursor: url(cursor_1.svg) 4 5, url(cursor_2.svg), /* … ,*/ url(cursor_n.cur) 5 5,
  progress;

/* Global values */
cursor: inherit;
cursor: initial;
cursor: revert;
cursor: revert-layer;
cursor: unset;
```

The `cursor` property is specified as zero or more `<url>` values, separated by commas, followed by a single mandatory keyword value.
Each `<url>` should point to an image file.
The browser will try to load the first image specified, falling back to the next if it can't, and falling back to the keyword value if no images could be loaded (or if none were specified).

Each `<url>` may be optionally followed by a pair of space-separated numbers, which set the `<x>` and `<y>` coordinates of the cursor's hotspot relative to the top-left corner of the image.

### Values

- `<url>` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A `url()` or a comma separated list `url(), url(), …`, pointing to an image file.
    More than one {{cssxref("url", "url()")}} may be provided as fallbacks, in case some cursor image types are not supported.
    A non-URL fallback (one or more of the keyword values) _must_ be at the end of the fallback list.
- `<x>`, `<y>` {{optional_inline}}

  - : Optional x- and y-coordinates indicating the cursor hotspot; the precise position within the cursor that is being pointed to.

    The numbers are in units of image pixels.
    They are relative to the top left corner of the image, which corresponds to "`0 0`", and are clamped within the boundaries of the cursor image.
    If these values are not specified, they may be read from the file itself, and will otherwise default to the top-left corner of the image.

- `keyword`

  - : A keyword value _must_ be specified, indicating either the type of cursor to use, or the fallback cursor to use if all specified icons fail to load.

    The available keywords are listed in the table below. Other than `none`, which means no cursor, there is an image showing how the cursors used to be rendered. You can hover your mouse over the table rows to see the effect of the different cursor keyword values on your browser today.

    <table class="standard-table">
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th scope="col">Category</th>
          <th scope="col">Keyword</th>
          <th scope="col">Example</th>
          <th scope="col">Description</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr style="cursor: auto">
          <th rowspan="3" scope="row">General</th>
          <td><code>auto</code></td>
          <td></td>
          <td>
            The UA will determine the cursor to display based on the current context. E.g., equivalent to <code>text</code> when hovering text.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: default">
          <td><code>default</code></td>
          <td><img src="default.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left" /></td>
          <td>The platform-dependent default cursor. Typically an arrow.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: none">
          <td><code>none</code></td>
          <td></td>
          <td>No cursor is rendered.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: context-menu">
          <th rowspan="5" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Links &#x26; status</th>
          <td><code>context-menu</code></td>
          <td><img alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left slightly obscuring a menu icon" src="context-menu.png" /></td>
          <td>A context menu is available.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: help">
          <td><code>help</code></td>
          <td><img src="help.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left next to a question mark" /></td>
          <td>Help information is available.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: pointer">
          <td><code>pointer</code></td>
          <td><img src="pointer.gif" alt="right hand with an index finger pointing up" /></td>
          <td>
            The cursor is a pointer that indicates a link. Typically an image of a pointing hand.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: progress">
          <td><code>progress</code></td>
          <td><img src="progress.gif" alt="wide arrow and hour glass" /></td>
          <td>
            The program is busy in the background, but the user can still interact
            with the interface (in contrast to <code>wait</code>).
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: wait">
          <td><code>wait</code></td>
          <td><img src="wait.gif" alt="hour glass" /></td>
          <td>
            The program is busy, and the user can't interact with the interface (in contrast to <code>progress</code>).
            Sometimes an image of an hourglass or a watch.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: cell">
          <th rowspan="4" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Selection</th>
          <td><code>cell</code></td>
          <td><img src="cell.gif" alt="wide plus symbol" /></td>
          <td>The table cell or set of cells can be selected.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: crosshair">
          <td><code>crosshair</code></td>
          <td><img src="crosshair.gif" alt="plus symbol composed of two thing lines." /></td>
          <td>Cross cursor, often used to indicate selection in a bitmap.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: text">
          <td><code>text</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="text.gif" alt="vertical i-beam" /></td>
          <td>The text can be selected. Typically the shape of an I-beam.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: vertical-text">
          <td><code>vertical-text</code></td>
          <td><img alt="horizontal i-beam" src="vertical-text.gif" /></td>
          <td>
            The vertical text can be selected. Typically the shape of a sideways I-beam.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: alias">
          <th rowspan="7" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Drag &#x26; drop</th>
          <td><code>alias</code></td>
          <td><img src="alias.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left partially obscuring a smaller folder icon with a curved arrow pointing up and to the right"/></td>
          <td>An alias or shortcut is to be created.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: copy">
          <td><code>copy</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="copy.gif" alt="wide arrow pointing up and to the left partially obscuring a smaller folder icon with a plus sign" /></td>
          <td>Something is to be copied.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: move">
          <td><code>move</code></td>
          <td><img src="move.gif" alt="plus sign made of two thin lines. The four points are small arrows facing out" /></td>
          <td>Something is to be moved.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: no-drop">
          <td><code>no-drop</code></td>
          <td>
            <img src="no-drop.gif" alt="pointer icon and a not allowed icon" />
          </td>
          <td>
            An item may not be dropped at the current location.<br />[Firefox bug 275173](https://bugzil.la/275173):
            On Windows and macOS, <code>no-drop</code> is the same as <code>not-allowed</code>.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: not-allowed">
          <td><code>not-allowed</code></td>
          <td><img alt="Not allowed icon, which is a circle with a line through it" src="not-allowed.gif" /></td>
          <td>The requested action will not be carried out.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: grab">
          <td><code>grab</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="grab.gif" alt="fully opened hand icon" /></td>
          <td>Something can be grabbed (dragged to be moved).</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: grabbing">
          <td><code>grabbing</code></td>
          <td><img class="default" src="grabbing.gif" alt="closed hand icon, of the back of the hand"/></td>
          <td>Something is being grabbed (dragged to be moved).</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: all-scroll">
          <th rowspan="15" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">
            Resizing &#x26; scrolling
          </th>
          <td><code>all-scroll</code></td>
          <td><img alt="icon of a medium size dot with four triangles around it." src="all-scroll.gif" /></td>
          <td>
            Something can be scrolled in any direction (panned).<br />[Firefox bug 275174](https://bugzil.la/275174):
            On Windows, <code>all-scroll</code> is the same as <code>move</code>.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: col-resize">
          <td><code>col-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="col-resize.gif" src="col-resize.gif" alt="two narrow parallel vertical lines with a small arrow pointing left and another pointing right" /></td>
          <td>
            The item/column can be resized horizontally.
            Often rendered as arrows pointing left and right with a vertical bar separating them.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: row-resize">
          <td><code>row-resize</code></td>
          <td><img src="row-resize.gif" alt="two narrow parallel horizontal lines with a small arrow pointing up and another pointing down" /></td>
          <td>
            The item/row can be resized vertically.
            Often rendered as arrows pointing up and down with a horizontal bar separating them.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: n-resize">
          <td><code>n-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing towards the top"
              src="n-resize.gif"
              style="border-style: solid; border-width: 0px"
            />
          </td>
          <td rowspan="8" style="cursor: auto">
            Some edge is to be moved. For example, the <code>se-resize</code> cursor is used when the movement starts from the <em>south-east</em> corner of the box.<br />
            In some environments, an equivalent bidirectional resize cursor is shown.
            For example, <code>n-resize</code> and <code>s-resize</code> are the same as <code>ns-resize</code>.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: e-resize">
          <td><code>e-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing towards the right"
              src="e-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: s-resize">
          <td><code>s-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing down"
              src="s-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: w-resize">
          <td><code>w-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing towards the left"
              src="w-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: ne-resize">
          <td><code>ne-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing top-right"
              src="ne-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: nw-resize">
          <td><code>nw-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing top-left"
              src="nw-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: se-resize">
          <td><code>se-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing bottom-right"
              src="se-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: sw-resize">
          <td><code>sw-resize</code></td>
          <td>
            <img
              alt="thin long arrow pointing bottom-left"
              src="sw-resize.gif"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: ew-resize">
          <td><code>ew-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing left and right" class="default" src="3-resize.gif" /></td>
          <td rowspan="4" style="cursor: auto">Bidirectional resize cursor.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: ns-resize">
          <td><code>ns-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing up and down" class="default" src="6-resize.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: nesw-resize">
          <td><code>nesw-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing both to the top-right and bottom-left" class="default" src="1-resize.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: nwse-resize">
          <td><code>nwse-resize</code></td>
          <td><img alt="thin long arrow pointing both to the top-left and bottom-right" class="default" src="4-resize.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: zoom-in">
          <th rowspan="2" scope="row" style="cursor: auto">Zooming</th>
          <td><code>zoom-in</code></td>
          <td><img alt="magnifying glass with a plus sign" class="default" src="zoom-in.gif" /></td>
          <td rowspan="2" style="cursor: auto">
            <p>Something can be zoomed (magnified) in or out.</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr style="cursor: zoom-out">
          <td><code>zoom-out</code></td>
          <td><img alt="magnifying glass with a minus sign" class="default" src="zoom-out.gif" /></td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Usage notes

### Icon size limits

While the specification does not limit the `cursor` image size, {{Glossary("user agent", "user agents")}} commonly restrict them to avoid potential misuse.
For example, on Firefox and Chromium cursor images are restricted to 128x128 pixels by default, but it is recommended to limit the cursor image size to 32x32 pixels. Cursor changes using images that are larger than the user-agent maximum supported size will generally just be ignored.

### Supported image file formats

User agents are required by the specification to support PNG files, SVG v1.1 files in secure static mode that contain a natural size, and any other non-animated image file formats that they support for images in other properties.
Desktop browsers also broadly support the `.cur` file format.

The specification further indicates that user agents _should_ also support SVG v1.1 files in secure animated mode that contain a natural size, along with any other animated images file formats they support for images in other properties.
User agents _may_ support both static and animated SVG images that do not contain a natural size.

### iPadOS

iPadOS supports pointer devices like trackpads and mouses. By default, the iPad cursor is displayed as a circle, and the only supported value that will change an appearance of the pointer is `text`.

### Other notes

Cursor changes that intersect toolbar areas are commonly blocked to avoid spoofing.

## Examples

### Setting cursor types

```css
.foo {
  cursor: crosshair;
}

.bar {
  cursor: zoom-in;
}

/* A fallback keyword value is required when using a URL */
.baz {
  cursor: url("hyper.cur"), auto;
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{cssxref("pointer-events")}}
- {{cssxref("url", "url()")}} function
