files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/regexp/lastmatch/index.md, before:

---
title: RegExp.lastMatch ($&)
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/lastMatch
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Non-standard
  - Property
  - Read-only
  - Reference
  - RegExp
  - Regular Expressions
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.RegExp.lastMatch
---

{{JSRef}} {{non-standard_header}}

The non-standard **lastMatch** property is a static and read-only property of regular expressions that contains the last matched characters. `RegExp.$&` is an alias for this property.

## Description

The `lastMatch` property is static, it is not a property of an individual regular expression object. Instead, you always use it as `RegExp.lastMatch` or `RegExp['$&'].`

The value of the `lastMatch` property is read-only and modified whenever a successful match is made.

You can not use the shorthand alias with the dot property accessor (`RegExp.$&`), because the parser expects an expression with "&" in that case and a {{jsxref("SyntaxError")}} is thrown. Use the [bracket notation for property access](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Property_Accessors).

## Examples

### Using lastMatch and $&

```js
const re = /hi/g;
re.test("hi there!");
RegExp.lastMatch; // "hi"
RegExp["$&"]; // "hi"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("RegExp.input", "RegExp.input ($_)")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.lastParen", "RegExp.lastParen ($+)")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.leftContext", "RegExp.leftContext ($`)")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.rightContext", "RegExp.rightContext ($')")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.n", "RegExp.$1-$9")}}

Commit message:

Align RegExp legacy feature pages (#22668)

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/regexp/lastmatch/index.md, after:

---
title: RegExp.lastMatch ($&)
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/lastMatch
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Deprecated
  - Property
  - Read-only
  - Reference
  - RegExp
  - Regular Expressions
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.RegExp.lastMatch
---

{{JSRef}} {{deprecated_header}}

> **Note:** All `RegExp` static properties that expose the last match state globally are deprecated. See [deprecated RegExp features](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Deprecated_and_obsolete_features#regexp) for more information.

The **`RegExp.lastMatch`** static accessor property returns the last matched substring. `RegExp["$&"]` is an alias for this property.

## Description

Because `lastMatch` is a static property of {{jsxref("RegExp")}}, you always use it as `RegExp.lastMatch` or `RegExp["$&"]`, rather than as a property of a `RegExp` object you created.

The value of `lastMatch` updates whenever a `RegExp` (but not a `RegExp` subclass) instance makes a successful match. If no matches have been made, `lastMatch` is an empty string. The set accessor of `lastMatch` is `undefined`, so you cannot change this property directly.

You cannot use the shorthand alias with the dot property accessor (`RegExp.$&`), because `&` is not a valid identifier part, so this causes a {{jsxref("SyntaxError")}}. Use the [bracket notation](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Property_Accessors) instead.

`$&` can also be used in the replacement string of {{jsxref("String.prototype.replace()")}}, but that's unrelated to the `RegExp["$&"]` legacy property.

## Examples

### Using lastMatch and $&

```js
const re = /hi/g;
re.test("hi there!");
RegExp.lastMatch; // "hi"
RegExp["$&"]; // "hi"
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("RegExp.input", "RegExp.input ($_)")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.lastParen", "RegExp.lastParen ($+)")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.leftContext", "RegExp.leftContext ($`)")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.rightContext", "RegExp.rightContext ($')")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.n", "RegExp.$1, …, RegExp.$9")}}
