files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/functions/get/index.md, before:

---
title: getter
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/get
page-type: javascript-language-feature
tags:
  - ECMAScript 2015
  - ECMAScript 5
  - Functions
  - JavaScript
  - Language feature
  - Reference
browser-compat: javascript.functions.get
---

{{jsSidebar("Functions")}}

The **`get`** syntax binds an object property to a function that will be called when that property is looked up. It can also be used in [classes](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes).

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/functions-getter.html")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
{ get prop() { /* … */ } }
{ get [expression]() { /* … */ } }
```

### Parameters

- `prop`
  - : The name of the property to bind to the given function.
- `expression`
  - : You can also use expressions for a computed property name to bind to the given function.

## Description

Sometimes it is desirable to allow access to a property that returns a dynamically
computed value, or you may want to reflect the status of an internal variable without
requiring the use of explicit method calls. In JavaScript, this can be accomplished with
the use of a _getter_.

It is not possible to simultaneously have a getter bound to a property and have that
property actually hold a value, although it _is_ possible to use a getter and a
setter in conjunction to create a type of pseudo-property.

Note the following when working with the `get` syntax:

- It can have an identifier which is either a number or a string;
- It must have exactly zero parameters
  (see [Incompatible ES5 change: literal getter and setter functions must now have exactly zero or one arguments](https://whereswalden.com/2010/08/22/incompatible-es5-change-literal-getter-and-setter-functions-must-now-have-exactly-zero-or-one-arguments/)
  for more information);
- It must not appear in an object literal with another `get` e.g. the following is forbidden

  ```js example-bad
  {
    get x() { }, get x() { }
  }
  ```

- It must not appear with a data entry for the same property e.g. the following is forbidden

  ```js example-bad
  {
    x: /* … */, get x() { /* … */ }
  }
  ```

## Examples

### Defining a getter on new objects in object initializers

This will create a pseudo-property `latest` for object `obj`,
which will return the last array item in `log`.

```js
const obj = {
  log: ["example", "test"],
  get latest() {
    if (this.log.length === 0) return undefined;
    return this.log[this.log.length - 1];
  },
};
console.log(obj.latest); // "test"
```

Note that attempting to assign a value to `latest` will not change it.

### Using getters in classes

You can use the exact same syntax to define public instance getters that are available on class instances. In classes, you don't need the comma separator between methods.

```js
class ClassWithGetSet {
  #msg = "hello world";
  get msg() {
    return this.#msg;
  }
  set msg(x) {
    this.#msg = `hello ${x}`;
  }
}

const instance = new ClassWithGetSet();
console.log(instance.msg); // "hello world"

instance.msg = "cake";
console.log(instance.msg); // "hello cake"
```

Getter properties are defined on the `prototype` property of the class and are thus shared by all instances of the class. Unlike getter properties in object literals, getter properties in classes are not enumerable.

Static setters and private setters use similar syntaxes, which are described in the [`static`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/static) and [private class features](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/Private_class_fields) pages.

### Deleting a getter using the `delete` operator

If you want to remove the getter, you can just {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "delete")}}
it:

```js
delete obj.latest;
```

### Defining a getter on existing objects using `defineProperty`

To append a getter to an existing object later at any time, use
{{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}}.

```js
const o = { a: 0 };

Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  get() {
    return this.a + 1;
  },
});

console.log(o.b); // Runs the getter, which yields a + 1 (which is 1)
```

### Using a computed property name

```js
const expr = "foo";

const obj = {
  get [expr]() {
    return "bar";
  },
};

console.log(obj.foo); // "bar"
```

### Defining static getters

```js
class MyConstants {
  static get foo() {
    return "foo";
  }
}

console.log(MyConstants.foo); // 'foo'
MyConstants.foo = "bar";
console.log(MyConstants.foo); // 'foo', a static getter's value cannot be changed
```

### Smart / self-overwriting / lazy getters

Getters give you a way to _define_ a property of an object, but they do not
_calculate_ the property's value until it is accessed. A getter defers the cost
of calculating the value until the value is needed. If it is never needed, you never pay
the cost.

An additional optimization technique to lazify or delay the calculation of a property
value and cache it for later access are _smart_ (or _[memoized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memoization)_) getters.
The value is calculated the first time the getter is called, and is then cached so
subsequent accesses return the cached value without recalculating it. This is useful in
the following situations:

- If the calculation of a property value is expensive (takes much RAM or CPU time,
  spawns worker threads, retrieves remote file, etc.).
- If the value isn't needed just now. It will be used later, or in some case it's not
  used at all.
- If it's used, it will be accessed several times, and there is no need to
  re-calculate that value will never be changed or shouldn't be re-calculated.

> **Note:** This means that you shouldn't write a lazy getter for a property whose value you
> expect to change, because if the getter is lazy then it will not recalculate the
> value.
>
> Note that getters are not "lazy" or "memoized" by nature; you must implement this
> technique if you desire this behavior.

In the following example, the object has a getter as its own property. On getting the
property, the property is removed from the object and re-added, but implicitly as a data
property this time. Finally, the value gets returned.

```js
const obj = {
  get notifier() {
    delete this.notifier;
    this.notifier = document.getElementById("bookmarked-notification-anchor");
    return this.notifier;
  },
};
```

### get vs. defineProperty

While using the `get` keyword and {{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}} have
similar results, there is a subtle difference between the two when used on
{{jsxref("classes")}}.

When using `get` the property will be defined on the instance's prototype,
while using {{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}} the property will be defined on the
instance it is applied to.

```js
class Example {
  get hello() {
    return "world";
  }
}

const obj = new Example();
console.log(obj.hello);
// "world"

console.log(Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, "hello"));
// undefined

console.log(
  Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(Object.getPrototypeOf(obj), "hello"),
);
// { configurable: true, enumerable: false, get: function get hello() { return 'world'; }, set: undefined }
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Setter](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/set)
- {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "delete")}}
- {{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}}
- [`Object.prototype.__defineGetter__()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/__defineGetter__)
- [`Object.prototype.__defineSetter__()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/__defineSetter__)
- [Defining getters and setters](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Working_with_Objects#defining_getters_and_setters) in JavaScript Guide

Commit message:

Class elements syntax restrictions (#23995)
* Class elements syntax restrictions

* Update files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/classes/constructor/index.md

Co-authored-by: Hamish Willee <hamishwillee@gmail.com>

* Add a leading sentence

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Hamish Willee <hamishwillee@gmail.com>

* Duplicate names

---------

Co-authored-by: Hamish Willee <hamishwillee@gmail.com>

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/functions/get/index.md, after:

---
title: getter
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/get
page-type: javascript-language-feature
tags:
  - ECMAScript 2015
  - ECMAScript 5
  - Functions
  - JavaScript
  - Language feature
  - Reference
browser-compat: javascript.functions.get
---

{{jsSidebar("Functions")}}

The **`get`** syntax binds an object property to a function that will be called when that property is looked up. It can also be used in [classes](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes).

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/functions-getter.html")}}

## Syntax

```js-nolint
{ get prop() { /* … */ } }
{ get [expression]() { /* … */ } }
```

There are some additional syntax restrictions:

- A getter must have exactly zero parameters.

### Parameters

- `prop`
  - : The name of the property to bind to the given function. In the same way as other properties in [object initializers](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Object_initializer), it can be a string literal, a number literal, or an identifier.
- `expression`
  - : You can also use expressions for a computed property name to bind to the given function.

## Description

Sometimes it is desirable to allow access to a property that returns a dynamically
computed value, or you may want to reflect the status of an internal variable without
requiring the use of explicit method calls. In JavaScript, this can be accomplished with
the use of a _getter_.

It is not possible to simultaneously have a getter bound to a property and have that
property actually hold a value, although it _is_ possible to use a getter and a
setter in conjunction to create a type of pseudo-property.

## Examples

### Defining a getter on new objects in object initializers

This will create a pseudo-property `latest` for object `obj`,
which will return the last array item in `log`.

```js
const obj = {
  log: ["example", "test"],
  get latest() {
    if (this.log.length === 0) return undefined;
    return this.log[this.log.length - 1];
  },
};
console.log(obj.latest); // "test"
```

Note that attempting to assign a value to `latest` will not change it.

### Using getters in classes

You can use the exact same syntax to define public instance getters that are available on class instances. In classes, you don't need the comma separator between methods.

```js
class ClassWithGetSet {
  #msg = "hello world";
  get msg() {
    return this.#msg;
  }
  set msg(x) {
    this.#msg = `hello ${x}`;
  }
}

const instance = new ClassWithGetSet();
console.log(instance.msg); // "hello world"

instance.msg = "cake";
console.log(instance.msg); // "hello cake"
```

Getter properties are defined on the `prototype` property of the class and are thus shared by all instances of the class. Unlike getter properties in object literals, getter properties in classes are not enumerable.

Static setters and private setters use similar syntaxes, which are described in the [`static`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/static) and [private class features](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/Private_class_fields) pages.

### Deleting a getter using the `delete` operator

If you want to remove the getter, you can just {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "delete")}}
it:

```js
delete obj.latest;
```

### Defining a getter on existing objects using `defineProperty`

To append a getter to an existing object later at any time, use
{{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}}.

```js
const o = { a: 0 };

Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  get() {
    return this.a + 1;
  },
});

console.log(o.b); // Runs the getter, which yields a + 1 (which is 1)
```

### Using a computed property name

```js
const expr = "foo";

const obj = {
  get [expr]() {
    return "bar";
  },
};

console.log(obj.foo); // "bar"
```

### Defining static getters

```js
class MyConstants {
  static get foo() {
    return "foo";
  }
}

console.log(MyConstants.foo); // 'foo'
MyConstants.foo = "bar";
console.log(MyConstants.foo); // 'foo', a static getter's value cannot be changed
```

### Smart / self-overwriting / lazy getters

Getters give you a way to _define_ a property of an object, but they do not
_calculate_ the property's value until it is accessed. A getter defers the cost
of calculating the value until the value is needed. If it is never needed, you never pay
the cost.

An additional optimization technique to lazify or delay the calculation of a property
value and cache it for later access are _smart_ (or _[memoized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memoization)_) getters.
The value is calculated the first time the getter is called, and is then cached so
subsequent accesses return the cached value without recalculating it. This is useful in
the following situations:

- If the calculation of a property value is expensive (takes much RAM or CPU time,
  spawns worker threads, retrieves remote file, etc.).
- If the value isn't needed just now. It will be used later, or in some case it's not
  used at all.
- If it's used, it will be accessed several times, and there is no need to
  re-calculate that value will never be changed or shouldn't be re-calculated.

> **Note:** This means that you shouldn't write a lazy getter for a property whose value you
> expect to change, because if the getter is lazy then it will not recalculate the
> value.
>
> Note that getters are not "lazy" or "memoized" by nature; you must implement this
> technique if you desire this behavior.

In the following example, the object has a getter as its own property. On getting the
property, the property is removed from the object and re-added, but implicitly as a data
property this time. Finally, the value gets returned.

```js
const obj = {
  get notifier() {
    delete this.notifier;
    this.notifier = document.getElementById("bookmarked-notification-anchor");
    return this.notifier;
  },
};
```

### get vs. defineProperty

While using the `get` keyword and {{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}} have
similar results, there is a subtle difference between the two when used on
{{jsxref("classes")}}.

When using `get` the property will be defined on the instance's prototype,
while using {{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}} the property will be defined on the
instance it is applied to.

```js
class Example {
  get hello() {
    return "world";
  }
}

const obj = new Example();
console.log(obj.hello);
// "world"

console.log(Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, "hello"));
// undefined

console.log(
  Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(Object.getPrototypeOf(obj), "hello"),
);
// { configurable: true, enumerable: false, get: function get hello() { return 'world'; }, set: undefined }
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Setter](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/set)
- {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "delete")}}
- {{jsxref("Object.defineProperty()")}}
- [`Object.prototype.__defineGetter__()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/__defineGetter__)
- [`Object.prototype.__defineSetter__()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/__defineSetter__)
- [Defining getters and setters](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Working_with_Objects#defining_getters_and_setters) in JavaScript Guide
- [Incompatible ES5 change: literal getter and setter functions must now have exactly zero or one arguments](https://whereswalden.com/2010/08/22/incompatible-es5-change-literal-getter-and-setter-functions-must-now-have-exactly-zero-or-one-arguments/)
