files/en-us/web/css/font-variant/index.md, before:

---
title: font-variant
slug: Web/CSS/font-variant
page-type: css-shorthand-property
tags:
  - CSS
  - CSS Fonts
  - CSS Property
  - Reference
  - recipe:css-shorthand-property
browser-compat: css.properties.font-variant
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`font-variant`** CSS [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) allows you to set all the font variants for a font.

You can also set the CSS Level 2 (Revision 1) values of `font-variant`, (that is, `normal` or `small-caps`), by using the {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/font-variant.html")}}

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- {{cssxref("font-variant-alternates")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-caps")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-east-asian")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-ligatures")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-numeric")}}

## Syntax

```css
font-variant: small-caps;
font-variant: common-ligatures small-caps;

/* Global values */
font-variant: inherit;
font-variant: initial;
font-variant: revert;
font-variant: revert-layer;
font-variant: unset;
```

### Values

- `normal`
  - : Specifies a normal font face; each of the longhand properties has an initial value of normal. Longhand properties of `font-variant` are: {{cssxref("font-variant-caps")}}, {{cssxref("font-variant-numeric")}}, {{cssxref("font-variant-alternates")}}, {{cssxref("font-variant-ligatures")}}, and {{cssxref("font-variant-east-asian")}}.
- `none`
  - : Sets the value of the {{cssxref("font-variant-ligatures")}} to `none` and the values of the other longhand property as `normal`, their initial value.
- `<common-lig-values>`, `<discretionary-lig-values>`, `<historical-lig-values>`, `<contextual-alt-values>`
  - : Specifies the keywords related to the {{cssxref("font-variant-ligatures")}} longhand property. The possible values are: `common-ligatures`, `no-common-ligatures`, `discretionary-ligatures`, `no-discretionary-ligatures`, `historical-ligatures`, `no-historical-ligatures`, `contextual`, and `no-contextual`.
- `stylistic()`, `historical-forms`, `styleset()`, `character-variant()`, `swash()`, `ornaments()`, `annotation()`
  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the {{cssxref("font-variant-alternates")}} longhand property.
- `small-caps`, `all-small-caps`, `petite-caps`, `all-petite-caps`, `unicase`, `titling-caps`
  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the {{cssxref("font-variant-caps")}} longhand property.
- `<numeric-figure-values>`, `<numeric-spacing-values>`, `<numeric-fraction-values>`, `ordinal`, `slashed-zero`
  - : Specifies the keywords related to the {{cssxref("font-variant-numeric")}} longhand property. The possible values are: `lining-nums`, `oldstyle-nums`, `proportional-nums`, `tabular-nums`, `diagonal-fractions`, `stacked-fractions`, `ordinal`, and `slashed-zero`.
- `<east-asian-variant-values>`, `<east-asian-width-values>`, `ruby`
  - : Specifies the keywords related to the {{cssxref("font-variant-east-asian")}} longhand property. The possible values are: `jis78`, `jis83`, `jis90`, `jis04`, `simplified`, `traditional`, `full-width`, `proportional-width`, `ruby`.

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Setting the small-caps font variant

#### HTML

```html
<p class="normal">Firefox rocks!</p>
<p class="small">Firefox rocks!</p>
```

#### CSS

```css
p.normal {
  font-variant: normal;
}
p.small {
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
```

#### Result

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Setting the small-caps font variant') }}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{cssxref("text-transform")}}
- {{cssxref("text-combine-upright")}}
- {{cssxref("text-orientation")}}

Commit message:

22118 108 release notes (#22797)
* created the font-variant-emoji page

* added definition of feature and values

* completed the variant-emoji page and added deatils for it and variant-positon to the sorthand page. Also updated all the links to be markdown links

* added the release details for font-variant-emoji

* Update files/en-us/mozilla/firefox/releases/108/index.md

Co-authored-by: Dipika Bhattacharya <dipika@foss-community.org>

Co-authored-by: Dipika Bhattacharya <dipika@foss-community.org>

files/en-us/web/css/font-variant/index.md, after:

---
title: font-variant
slug: Web/CSS/font-variant
page-type: css-shorthand-property
tags:
  - CSS
  - CSS Fonts
  - CSS Property
  - Reference
  - recipe:css-shorthand-property
browser-compat: css.properties.font-variant
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`font-variant`** CSS [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Shorthand_properties) allows you to set all the font variants for a font.

You can also set the CSS Level 2 (Revision 1) values of `font-variant`, (that is, `normal` or `small-caps`), by using the [`font`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font) shorthand.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/font-variant.html")}}

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- [`font-variant-alternates`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-alternates)
- [`font-variant-caps`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-caps)
- [`font-variant-east-asian`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-east-asian)
- [`font-variant-emoji`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-emoji)
- [`font-variant-ligatures`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures)
- [`font-variant-numeric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric)
- [`font-variant-position`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-position)

## Syntax

```css
font-variant: small-caps;
font-variant: common-ligatures small-caps;

/* Global values */
font-variant: inherit;
font-variant: initial;
font-variant: revert;
font-variant: revert-layer;
font-variant: unset;
```

### Values

- `normal`
  - : Specifies a normal font face; each of the longhand properties has an initial value of normal. Longhand properties of `font-variant` are: [`font-variant-caps`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-caps), [`font-variant-numeric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric), [`font-variant-alternates`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-alternates), [`font-variant-ligatures`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures), [`font-variant-east-asian`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-east-asian), [`font-variant-position`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-position) and [`font-variant-emoji`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-emoji).
- `none`
  - : Sets the value of the [`font-variant-ligatures`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures) to `none` and the values of the other longhand property as `normal`, their initial value.
- `<common-lig-values>`, `<discretionary-lig-values>`, `<historical-lig-values>`, `<contextual-alt-values>`
  - : Specifies the keywords related to the [`font-variant-ligatures`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures) longhand property. The possible values are: `common-ligatures`, `no-common-ligatures`, `discretionary-ligatures`, `no-discretionary-ligatures`, `historical-ligatures`, `no-historical-ligatures`, `contextual`, and `no-contextual`.
- `stylistic()`, `historical-forms`, `styleset()`, `character-variant()`, `swash()`, `ornaments()`, `annotation()`
  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the [`font-variant-ligatures`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures) longhand property.
- `small-caps`, `all-small-caps`, `petite-caps`, `all-petite-caps`, `unicase`, `titling-caps`
  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the [`font-variant-caps`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-caps) longhand property.
- `<numeric-figure-values>`, `<numeric-spacing-values>`, `<numeric-fraction-values>`, `ordinal`, `slashed-zero`
  - : Specifies the keywords related to the [`font-variant-numeric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric) longhand property. The possible values are: `lining-nums`, `oldstyle-nums`, `proportional-nums`, `tabular-nums`, `diagonal-fractions`, `stacked-fractions`, `ordinal`, and `slashed-zero`.
- `<east-asian-variant-values>`, `<east-asian-width-values>`, `ruby`
  - : Specifies the keywords related to the [`font-variant-east-asian`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-east-asian) longhand property. The possible values are: `jis78`, `jis83`, `jis90`, `jis04`, `simplified`, `traditional`, `full-width`, `proportional-width`, `ruby`.
- `sub`, `super`
  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the [`font-variant-position`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-position) longhand property.
- `text`, `emoji`, `unicode`
  - : Specifies the keywords and functions related to the [`font-variant-emoji`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-emoji) longhand property.

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Setting the small-caps font variant

#### HTML

```html
<p class="normal">Firefox rocks!</p>
<p class="small">Firefox rocks!</p>
```

#### CSS

```css
p.normal {
  font-variant: normal;
}
p.small {
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
```

#### Result

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Setting the small-caps font variant') }}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [`text-transform`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-transform)
- [`text-combine-upright`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-combine-upright)
- [`text-orientation`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-orientation)
- [`font-variant-alternates`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-alternates)
- [`font-variant-caps`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-caps)
- [`font-variant-east-asian`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-east-asian)
- [`font-variant-emoji`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-emoji)
- [`font-variant-ligatures`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures)
- [`font-variant-numeric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric)
- [`font-variant-position`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-position)
