files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/uint32array/index.md, before:

---
title: Uint32Array
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint32Array
page-type: javascript-class
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Uint32Array
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Uint32Array`** typed array represents an array of 32-bit unsigned integers in the platform byte order. If control over byte order is needed, use {{jsxref("DataView")}} instead. The contents are initialized to `0`. Once established, you can reference elements in the array using the object's methods, or using standard array index syntax (that is, using bracket notation).

`Uint32Array` is a subclass of the hidden {{jsxref("TypedArray")}} class.

## Constructor

- {{jsxref("Global_Objects/Uint32Array/Uint32Array", "Uint32Array()")}}
  - : Creates a new `Uint32Array` object.

## Static properties

_Also inherits static properties from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

- {{jsxref("TypedArray.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT", "Uint32Array.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT")}}
  - : Returns a number value of the element size. `4` in the case of `Uint32Array`.
- {{jsxref("TypedArray.name", "Uint32Array.name")}}
  - : Returns the string value of the constructor name. `"Uint32Array"` in the case of `Uint32Array`.

## Static methods

_Inherits static methods from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

## Instance properties

_Also inherits instance properties from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

- {{jsxref("TypedArray.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT", "Uint32Array.prototype.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT")}}
  - : Returns a number value of the element size. `4` in the case of a `Uint32Array`.

## Instance methods

_Inherits instance methods from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

## Examples

### Different ways to create a Uint32Array

```js
// From a length
const uint32 = new Uint32Array(2);
uint32[0] = 42;
console.log(uint32[0]); // 42
console.log(uint32.length); // 2
console.log(uint32.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT); // 4

// From an array
const x = new Uint32Array([21, 31]);
console.log(x[1]); // 31

// From another TypedArray
const y = new Uint32Array(x);
console.log(y[0]); // 21

// From an ArrayBuffer
const buffer = new ArrayBuffer(32);
const z = new Uint32Array(buffer, 4, 4);
console.log(z.byteOffset); // 4

// From an iterable
const iterable = (function* () {
  yield* [1, 2, 3];
})();
const uint32FromIterable = new Uint32Array(iterable);
console.log(uint32FromIterable);
// Uint32Array [1, 2, 3]
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Polyfill of `Uint32Array` in `core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#ecmascript-typed-arrays)
- [JavaScript typed arrays](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays)
- {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}}
- {{jsxref("DataView")}}

Commit message:

Mention the constructor property in every global class (#24658)
Add mention of the constructor property to every global class

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/uint32array/index.md, after:

---
title: Uint32Array
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint32Array
page-type: javascript-class
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Uint32Array
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Uint32Array`** typed array represents an array of 32-bit unsigned integers in the platform byte order. If control over byte order is needed, use {{jsxref("DataView")}} instead. The contents are initialized to `0`. Once established, you can reference elements in the array using the object's methods, or using standard array index syntax (that is, using bracket notation).

`Uint32Array` is a subclass of the hidden {{jsxref("TypedArray")}} class.

## Constructor

- {{jsxref("Global_Objects/Uint32Array/Uint32Array", "Uint32Array()")}}
  - : Creates a new `Uint32Array` object.

## Static properties

_Also inherits static properties from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

- {{jsxref("TypedArray.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT", "Uint32Array.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT")}}
  - : Returns a number value of the element size. `4` in the case of `Uint32Array`.
- {{jsxref("TypedArray.name", "Uint32Array.name")}}
  - : Returns the string value of the constructor name. `"Uint32Array"` in the case of `Uint32Array`.

## Static methods

_Inherits static methods from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

## Instance properties

_Also inherits instance properties from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

These properties are defined on `Uint32Array.prototype` and shared by all `Uint32Array` instances.

- {{jsxref("TypedArray.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT", "Uint32Array.prototype.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT")}}
  - : Returns a number value of the element size. `4` in the case of a `Uint32Array`.
- {{jsxref("Object/constructor", "Uint32Array.prototype.constructor")}}
  - : The constructor function that created the instance object. For `Uint32Array` instances, the initial value is the {{jsxref("Uint32Array/Uint32Array", "Uint32Array")}} constructor.

## Instance methods

_Inherits instance methods from its parent {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}_.

## Examples

### Different ways to create a Uint32Array

```js
// From a length
const uint32 = new Uint32Array(2);
uint32[0] = 42;
console.log(uint32[0]); // 42
console.log(uint32.length); // 2
console.log(uint32.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT); // 4

// From an array
const x = new Uint32Array([21, 31]);
console.log(x[1]); // 31

// From another TypedArray
const y = new Uint32Array(x);
console.log(y[0]); // 21

// From an ArrayBuffer
const buffer = new ArrayBuffer(32);
const z = new Uint32Array(buffer, 4, 4);
console.log(z.byteOffset); // 4

// From an iterable
const iterable = (function* () {
  yield* [1, 2, 3];
})();
const uint32FromIterable = new Uint32Array(iterable);
console.log(uint32FromIterable);
// Uint32Array [1, 2, 3]
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Polyfill of `Uint32Array` in `core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#ecmascript-typed-arrays)
- [JavaScript typed arrays](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays)
- {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}}
- {{jsxref("DataView")}}
