files/en-us/web/api/mimetypearray/index.md, before:

---
title: MimeTypeArray
slug: Web/API/MimeTypeArray
page-type: web-api-interface
tags:
  - API
  - Interface
  - Reference
  - mimeType
  - Deprecated
browser-compat: api.MimeTypeArray
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}{{Deprecated_Header}}

The **`MimeTypeArray`** interface returns an array of {{domxref('MimeType')}} instances, each of which contains information about a supported browser plugins. This object is returned by {{domxref("Navigator.mimeTypes")}}.

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("MimeTypeArray.length")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : The number of items in the array.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("MimeTypeArray.item()")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Returns the `MimeType` object with the specified index.
- {{domxref("MimeTypeArray.namedItem()")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Returns the `MimeType` object with the specified name.

## Example

The following example tests whether a plugin is available for the 'application/pdf' mime type and if so, logs its description.

```js
const mimeTypes = navigator.mimeTypes;
const pdf = mimeTypes.namedItem('application/pdf');

if (pdf) {
  console.log(pdf.description);
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Add a note to a few legacy-ish list interfaces (#22833)
* fix CSSRuleList item() example

* fix CSSRuleList item() example

* Update index.md

* Rewording item() example

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Rewording item() example

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* Rewording item() example

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

* add legacy note to old readonly collection interfaces

* fix linting issues

* Update files/en-us/web/api/cssrulelist/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/cssrulelist/item/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/cssstyledeclaration/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/domtokenlist/index.md

* Update files/en-us/web/api/filelist/index.md

* Apply suggestions from code review

* rephrase the history of read-only collection interfaces note

* remove read-only collections history note

remove the note about the history of creating read-only interfaces from interfaces that was designed to do more work than just achieving unmodifiable list

* fix linting issue

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>
Co-authored-by: Michael[tm] Smith <mike@w3.org>

files/en-us/web/api/mimetypearray/index.md, after:

---
title: MimeTypeArray
slug: Web/API/MimeTypeArray
page-type: web-api-interface
tags:
  - API
  - Interface
  - Reference
  - mimeType
  - Deprecated
browser-compat: api.MimeTypeArray
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}{{Deprecated_Header}}

The **`MimeTypeArray`** interface returns an array of {{domxref('MimeType')}} instances, each of which contains information about a supported browser plugins. This object is returned by {{domxref("Navigator.mimeTypes")}}.

> **Note:** This interface was an [attempt to create an unmodifiable list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74630989/why-use-domstringlist-rather-than-an-array/74641156#74641156) and only continues to be supported to not break code that's already using it. Modern APIs use types that wrap around ECMAScript array types instead, so you can treat them like ECMAScript arrays, and at the same time impose additional semantics on their usage (such as making their items read-only).

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("MimeTypeArray.length")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : The number of items in the array.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("MimeTypeArray.item()")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Returns the `MimeType` object with the specified index.
- {{domxref("MimeTypeArray.namedItem()")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Returns the `MimeType` object with the specified name.

## Example

The following example tests whether a plugin is available for the 'application/pdf' mime type and if so, logs its description.

```js
const mimeTypes = navigator.mimeTypes;
const pdf = mimeTypes.namedItem('application/pdf');

if (pdf) {
  console.log(pdf.description);
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}
