files/en-us/web/css/color_value/hwb/index.md, before:

---
title: hwb()
slug: Web/CSS/color_value/hwb
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.color.hwb
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`hwb()`** functional notation expresses a given color according to its hue, whiteness, and blackness. An optional alpha component represents the color's transparency.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/function-hwb.html")}}

## Syntax

```css
hwb(194 0% 0%) /* #00c3ff */
hwb(194 0% 0% / .5) /* #00c3ff with 50% opacity */
```

### Values

Functional notation: `hwb(H W B[ / A])`

- `H`

  - : An {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}} of the color circle given in `deg`s, `rad`s, `grad`s, or `turn`s in the [CSS Color](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color/#typedef-hue) specification. When written as a unitless {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, it is interpreted as degrees, as specified in the [CSS Color Level 3](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-3/#hsl-color) specification. By definition, red=0deg=360deg, with the other colors spread around the circle, so green=120deg, blue=240deg, etc. As an `<angle>`, it implicitly wraps around such that -120deg=240deg, 480deg=120deg, -1turn=1turn, etc.

- `W`, `B`

  - : {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} representing whiteness and blackness, respectively, that specifies the amount of white and black to mix in, from 0% (no whiteness or blackness) to 100% (full whiteness or blackness).

    If `W + B = 100%`, it defines some shade of gray. If `W + B > 100%`, `W` and `B` are effectively normalized as `W / (W + B)` and `B / (W + B)`, respectively.

- `A` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}}, where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity).

### Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Add `<(color|hue)-interpolation-method>`; de-duplicate `<hue>` descriptions (#26775)
* Create `<color-interpolation-method>`

* Create `<hue-interpolation-method>`

* Upload diagrams

* Fix image link

* Tentative linting fix

* Linting

* Linting

* Linting

* Replace example for `<hue-interpolation-method>`

* Wording

* Use larger height for example

* Update `<hue>`

* Create color_wheel.svg

* Fix linting

* Simplify wording

* Simplify wording

* Simplify syntax of `color-mix()`

* Relocate `<hue-interpolation-method>` example

* Fix linting

* De-duplicate `<hue>` from `hsl()`

* Delete hue-wheel.png

* De-duplicate `<hue>` from `hwb()`

* De-duplicate `<hue>` from `lch()`

* De-duplicate `<hue>` from `oklch()`

* Delete hue-wheel.png

* Fine-tune `<hue-interpolation-method>`

* Remove Level 5 content from `color()`

* Uplift "Formal syntax" level

* Uplift "Formal syntax" level

* Update `<color>`

* Fix linting

* Fix linting

* Fine-tune `<color>` example

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

* Add fallback for example on `<hue-interpolation>`

* Eliminate custom variable

* Fix

* Simplify

* Tweak example

* Remove "example hint"

* Update `<color>`

* Add back example for `color-mix()`

* Fix link

* Update `hsl()`

* Update `hwb()`

* Update `lch()`

* Update `oklch()`

* Update `<color-interpolation-method>`

* docs(CSS): Run prettier over color-interpolation-method page

* Apply suggestion from code reivew

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

* Update files/en-us/web/css/hue-interpolation-method/index.md

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

* Add `<named-color>` example for `<color>`

---------

Co-authored-by: Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu <vinyldarkscratch@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

files/en-us/web/css/color_value/hwb/index.md, after:

---
title: hwb()
slug: Web/CSS/color_value/hwb
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.color.hwb
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`hwb()`** functional notation expresses a given color according to its hue, whiteness, and blackness. An optional alpha component represents the color's transparency.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/function-hwb.html")}}

## Syntax

```css
hwb(194 0% 0%) /* #00c3ff */
hwb(194 0% 0% / .5) /* #00c3ff with 50% opacity */
```

### Values

Functional notation: `hwb(H W B[ / A])`

- `H`

  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} or an {{CSSXref("&lt;angle&gt;")}} representing the hue angle. More details on this type can be found on the {{CSSXref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} reference.

- `W`, `B`

  - : {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} representing whiteness and blackness, respectively, that specifies the amount of white and black to mix in, from 0% (no whiteness or blackness) to 100% (full whiteness or blackness).

    If `W + B = 100%`, it defines some shade of gray. If `W + B > 100%`, `W` and `B` are effectively normalized as `W / (W + B)` and `B / (W + B)`, respectively.

- `A` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}}, where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity).

### Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{CSSXref("&lt;color&gt;")}}: For a list of all color notations
