files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/regexp/index.md, before:

---
title: RegExp
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp
page-type: javascript-class
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.RegExp
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`RegExp`** object is used for matching text with a pattern.

For an introduction to regular expressions, read the [Regular Expressions chapter](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions) in the [JavaScript Guide](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions).

## Description

### Literal notation and constructor

There are two ways to create a `RegExp` object: a _literal notation_ and a _constructor_.

- The _literal notation_ takes a pattern between two slashes, followed by optional flags, after the second slash.
- The _constructor function_ takes either a string or a `RegExp` object as its first parameter and a string of optional flags as its second parameter.

The following three expressions create the same regular expression object:

```js
const re = /ab+c/i; // literal notation
// OR
const re = new RegExp("ab+c", "i"); // constructor with string pattern as first argument
// OR
const re = new RegExp(/ab+c/, "i"); // constructor with regular expression literal as first argument
```

Before regular expressions can be used, they have to be compiled. This process allows them to perform matches more efficiently. More about the process can be found in [dotnet docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/compilation-and-reuse-in-regular-expressions).

The literal notation results in compilation of the regular expression when the expression is evaluated. On the other hand, the constructor of the `RegExp` object, `new RegExp('ab+c')`, results in runtime compilation of the regular expression.

Use a string as the first argument to the `RegExp()` constructor when you want to [build the regular expression from dynamic input](#building_a_regular_expression_from_dynamic_inputs).

### Flags in constructor

The expression `new RegExp(/ab+c/, flags)` will create a new `RegExp` using the source of the first parameter and the flags provided by the second.

When using the constructor function, the normal string escape rules (preceding special characters with `\` when included in a string) are necessary.

For example, the following are equivalent:

```js
const re = /\w+/;
// OR
const re = new RegExp("\\w+");
```

### Special handling for regexes

> **Note:** Whether something is a "regex" can be [duck-typed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_typing). It doesn't have to be a `RegExp`!

Some built-in methods would treat regexes specially. They decide whether `x` is a regex through [multiple steps](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-isregexp):

1. `x` must be an object (not a primitive).
2. If [`x[Symbol.match]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/match) is not `undefined`, check if it's [truthy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Truthy).
3. Otherwise, if `x[Symbol.match]` is `undefined`, check if `x` had been created with the `RegExp` constructor. (This step should rarely happen, since if `x` is a `RegExp` object that have not been tampered with, it should have a `Symbol.match` property.)

Note that in most cases, it would go through the `Symbol.match` check, which means:

- An actual `RegExp` object whose `Symbol.match` property's value is [falsy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) but not `undefined` (even with everything else intact, like [`exec`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/exec) and [`@@replace`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@replace)) can be used as if it's not a regex.
- A non-`RegExp` object with a `Symbol.match` property will be treated as if it's a regex.

This choice was made because `@@match` is the most indicative property that something is intended to be used for matching. (`exec` could also be used, but because it's not a symbol property, there would be too many false positives.) The places that treat regexes specially include:

- [`String.prototype.endsWith()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/endsWith), [`startsWith()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/startsWith), and [`includes()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/includes) throw a {{jsxref("TypeError")}} if the first argument is a regex.
- [`String.prototype.matchAll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/matchAll) and [`replaceAll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replaceAll) check whether the [global](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/global) flag is set if the first argument is a regex before invoking its [`@@matchAll`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/matchAll) or [`@@replace`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/replace) method.
- The [`RegExp()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/RegExp) constructor directly returns the `pattern` argument only if `pattern` is a regex (among a few other conditions). If `pattern` is a regex, it would also interrogate `pattern`'s `source` and `flags` properties instead of coercing `pattern` to a string.

For example, [`String.prototype.endsWith()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/endsWith) would coerce all inputs to strings, but it would throw if the argument is a regex, because it's only designed to match strings, and using a regex is likely a developer mistake.

```js
"foobar".endsWith({ toString: () => "bar" }); // true
"foobar".endsWith(/bar/); // TypeError: First argument to String.prototype.endsWith must not be a regular expression
```

You can get around the check by setting `@@match` to a [falsy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) value that's not `undefined`. This would mean that the regex cannot be used for `String.prototype.match()` (since without `@@match`, `match()` would construct a new `RegExp` object with the two enclosing slashes added by [`re.toString()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/toString)), but it can be used for virtually everything else.

```js
const re = /bar/g;
re[Symbol.match] = false;
"/bar/g".endsWith(re); // true
re.exec("bar"); // [ 'bar', index: 0, input: 'bar', groups: undefined ]
"bar & bar".replace(re, "foo"); // 'foo & foo'
```

### Perl-like RegExp properties

Note that several of the {{jsxref("RegExp")}} properties have both long and short (Perl-like) names. Both names always refer to the same value. (Perl is the programming language from which JavaScript modeled its regular expressions.) See also [deprecated `RegExp` properties](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Deprecated_and_obsolete_features#regexp).

## Constructor

- {{jsxref("RegExp/RegExp", "RegExp()")}}
  - : Creates a new `RegExp` object.

## Static properties

- {{jsxref("RegExp/n", "RegExp.$1, …, RegExp.$9")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Static read-only properties that contain parenthesized substring matches.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.input", "RegExp.input ($_)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static property that contains the last string against which a regular expression was successfully matched.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.lastMatch", "RegExp.lastMatch ($&)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the last matched substring.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.lastParen", "RegExp.lastParen ($+)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the last parenthesized substring match.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.leftContext", "RegExp.leftContext ($`)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the substring preceding the most recent match.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.rightContext", "RegExp.rightContext ($')")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the substring following the most recent match.
- {{jsxref("RegExp/@@species", "RegExp[@@species]")}}
  - : The constructor function that is used to create derived objects.

## Instance properties

These properties are defined on `RegExp.prototype` and shared by all `RegExp` instances.

- {{jsxref("Object/constructor", "RegExp.prototype.constructor")}}
  - : The constructor function that created the instance object. For `RegExp` instances, the initial value is the {{jsxref("RegExp/RegExp", "RegExp")}} constructor.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.dotAll")}}
  - : Whether `.` matches newlines or not.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.flags")}}
  - : A string that contains the flags of the `RegExp` object.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.global")}}
  - : Whether to test the regular expression against all possible matches in a string, or only against the first.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.hasIndices")}}
  - : Whether the regular expression result exposes the start and end indices of captured substrings.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.ignoreCase")}}
  - : Whether to ignore case while attempting a match in a string.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.multiline")}}
  - : Whether or not to search in strings across multiple lines.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.source")}}
  - : The text of the pattern.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.sticky")}}
  - : Whether or not the search is sticky.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.unicode")}}
  - : Whether or not Unicode features are enabled.

These properties are own properties of each `RegExp` instance.

- {{jsxref("RegExp/lastIndex", "lastIndex")}}
  - : The index at which to start the next match.

## Instance methods

- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.compile()")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : (Re-)compiles a regular expression during execution of a script.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.exec()")}}
  - : Executes a search for a match in its string parameter.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.test()")}}
  - : Tests for a match in its string parameter.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.toString()")}}
  - : Returns a string representing the specified object. Overrides the {{jsxref("Object.prototype.toString()")}} method.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@match]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@match)
  - : Performs match to given string and returns match result.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@matchAll]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@matchAll)
  - : Returns all matches of the regular expression against a string.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@replace]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@replace)
  - : Replaces matches in given string with new substring.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@search]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@search)
  - : Searches the match in given string and returns the index the pattern found in the string.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@split]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@split)
  - : Splits given string into an array by separating the string into substrings.

## Examples

### Using a regular expression to change data format

The following script uses the {{jsxref("String.prototype.replace()", "replace()")}} method of the {{jsxref("Global_Objects/String", "String")}} instance to match a name in the format _first last_ and output it in the format _last, first_.

In the replacement text, the script uses `$1` and `$2` to indicate the results of the corresponding matching parentheses in the regular expression pattern.

```js
const re = /(\w+)\s(\w+)/;
const str = "Maria Cruz";
const newstr = str.replace(re, "$2, $1");
console.log(newstr);
```

This displays `"Cruz, Maria"`.

### Using regular expression to split lines with different line endings/ends of line/line breaks

The default line ending varies depending on the platform (Unix, Windows, etc.). The line splitting provided in this example works on all platforms.

```js
const text = "Some text\nAnd some more\r\nAnd yet\rThis is the end";
const lines = text.split(/\r\n|\r|\n/);
console.log(lines); // [ 'Some text', 'And some more', 'And yet', 'This is the end' ]
```

Note that the order of the patterns in the regular expression matters.

### Using regular expression on multiple lines

```js
const s = "Please yes\nmake my day!";

s.match(/yes.*day/);
// Returns null

s.match(/yes[^]*day/);
// Returns ["yes\nmake my day"]
```

### Using a regular expression with the sticky flag

The {{jsxref("Global_Objects/RegExp/sticky", "sticky")}} flag indicates that the regular expression performs sticky matching in the target string by attempting to match starting at {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.lastIndex")}}.

```js
const str = "#foo#";
const regex = /foo/y;

regex.lastIndex = 1;
regex.test(str); // true
regex.lastIndex = 5;
regex.test(str); // false (lastIndex is taken into account with sticky flag)
regex.lastIndex; // 0 (reset after match failure)
```

### The difference between the sticky flag and the global flag

With the sticky flag `y`, the next match has to happen at the `lastIndex` position, while with the global flag `g`, the match can happen at the `lastIndex` position or later:

```js
const re = /\d/y;
let r;
while ((r = re.exec("123 456"))) {
  console.log(r, "AND re.lastIndex", re.lastIndex);
}

// [ '1', index: 0, input: '123 456', groups: undefined ] AND re.lastIndex 1
// [ '2', index: 1, input: '123 456', groups: undefined ] AND re.lastIndex 2
// [ '3', index: 2, input: '123 456', groups: undefined ] AND re.lastIndex 3
//  … and no more match.
```

With the global flag `g`, all 6 digits would be matched, not just 3.

### Regular expression and Unicode characters

`\w` and `\W` only matches ASCII based characters; for example, `a` to `z`, `A` to `Z`, `0` to `9`, and `_`.

To match characters from other languages such as Cyrillic or Hebrew, use `\uhhhh`, where `hhhh` is the character's Unicode value in hexadecimal.

This example demonstrates how one can separate out Unicode characters from a word.

```js
const text = "Образец text на русском языке";
const regex = /[\u0400-\u04FF]+/g;

const match = regex.exec(text);
console.log(match[0]); // 'Образец'
console.log(regex.lastIndex); // 7

const match2 = regex.exec(text);
console.log(match2[0]); // 'на' (did not log 'text')
console.log(regex.lastIndex); // 15

// and so on
```

The [Unicode property escapes](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions/Unicode_property_escapes) feature provides a simpler way to target particular Unicode ranges, by allowing for statements like `\p{scx=Cyrl}` (to match any Cyrillic letter), or `\p{L}/u` (to match a letter from any language).

### Extracting subdomain name from URL

```js
const url = "http://xxx.domain.com";
console.log(/^https?:\/\/(.+?)\./.exec(url)[1]); // 'xxx'
```

> **Note:** Instead of using regular expressions for parsing URLs, it is usually better to use the browsers built-in URL parser by using the [URL API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL_API).

### Building a regular expression from dynamic inputs

```js
const breakfasts = ["bacon", "eggs", "oatmeal", "toast", "cereal"];
const order = "Let me get some bacon and eggs, please";

order.match(new RegExp(`\\b(${breakfasts.join("|")})\\b`, "g"));
// Returns ['bacon', 'eggs']
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

### Firefox-specific notes

Starting with Firefox 34, in the case of a capturing group with quantifiers preventing its exercise, the matched text for a capturing group is now `undefined` instead of an empty string:

```js
// Firefox 33 or older
"x".replace(/x(.)?/g, (m, group) => {
  console.log(`group: ${JSON.stringify(group)}`);
});
// group: ""

// Firefox 34 or newer
"x".replace(/x(.)?/g, (m, group) => {
  console.log(`group: ${group}`);
});
// group: undefined
```

Note that due to web compatibility, `RegExp.$N` will still return an empty string instead of `undefined` ([bug 1053944](https://bugzil.la/1053944)).

## See also

- [Polyfill of many modern `RegExp` features (`dotAll`, `sticky` flags, named capture groups, etc.) in `core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#ecmascript-string-and-regexp)
- [Regular Expressions](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions) chapter in the [JavaScript Guide](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide)
- {{jsxref("String.prototype.match()")}}
- {{jsxref("String.prototype.replace()")}}
- {{jsxref("String.prototype.split()")}}

Commit message:

Regex reference (#22210)
* Regex reference

* Overview page

* Examples

* Capturing groups

* Quantifier

* Lookarounds

* Backreference

* Character class

* Escape character

* Deprecated syntax

* Character class escape

* Unicode escape

* escape character -> character escape

* Fix

* Page type

* Address some suggestions

* Add browser compat data

* Fix

* Add a sentence

* Fix slug

* More examples

* Merge articles

* Complete intro

* Add a literal character page

* Some changes

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

* Improvements

* Fix spelling

---------

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/regexp/index.md, after:

---
title: RegExp
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp
page-type: javascript-class
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.RegExp
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`RegExp`** object is used for matching text with a pattern.

For an introduction to regular expressions, read the [Regular expressions chapter](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions) in the JavaScript guide. For detailed information of regular expression syntax, read the [regular expression reference](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions).

## Description

### Literal notation and constructor

There are two ways to create a `RegExp` object: a _literal notation_ and a _constructor_.

- The _literal notation_ takes a pattern between two slashes, followed by optional flags, after the second slash.
- The _constructor function_ takes either a string or a `RegExp` object as its first parameter and a string of optional flags as its second parameter.

The following three expressions create the same regular expression object:

```js
const re = /ab+c/i; // literal notation
// OR
const re = new RegExp("ab+c", "i"); // constructor with string pattern as first argument
// OR
const re = new RegExp(/ab+c/, "i"); // constructor with regular expression literal as first argument
```

Before regular expressions can be used, they have to be compiled. This process allows them to perform matches more efficiently. More about the process can be found in [dotnet docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/compilation-and-reuse-in-regular-expressions).

The literal notation results in compilation of the regular expression when the expression is evaluated. On the other hand, the constructor of the `RegExp` object, `new RegExp('ab+c')`, results in runtime compilation of the regular expression.

Use a string as the first argument to the `RegExp()` constructor when you want to [build the regular expression from dynamic input](#building_a_regular_expression_from_dynamic_inputs).

### Flags in constructor

The expression `new RegExp(/ab+c/, flags)` will create a new `RegExp` using the source of the first parameter and the flags provided by the second.

When using the constructor function, the normal string escape rules (preceding special characters with `\` when included in a string) are necessary.

For example, the following are equivalent:

```js
const re = /\w+/;
// OR
const re = new RegExp("\\w+");
```

### Special handling for regexes

> **Note:** Whether something is a "regex" can be [duck-typed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_typing). It doesn't have to be a `RegExp`!

Some built-in methods would treat regexes specially. They decide whether `x` is a regex through [multiple steps](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-isregexp):

1. `x` must be an object (not a primitive).
2. If [`x[Symbol.match]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/match) is not `undefined`, check if it's [truthy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Truthy).
3. Otherwise, if `x[Symbol.match]` is `undefined`, check if `x` had been created with the `RegExp` constructor. (This step should rarely happen, since if `x` is a `RegExp` object that have not been tampered with, it should have a `Symbol.match` property.)

Note that in most cases, it would go through the `Symbol.match` check, which means:

- An actual `RegExp` object whose `Symbol.match` property's value is [falsy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) but not `undefined` (even with everything else intact, like [`exec`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/exec) and [`@@replace`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@replace)) can be used as if it's not a regex.
- A non-`RegExp` object with a `Symbol.match` property will be treated as if it's a regex.

This choice was made because `@@match` is the most indicative property that something is intended to be used for matching. (`exec` could also be used, but because it's not a symbol property, there would be too many false positives.) The places that treat regexes specially include:

- [`String.prototype.endsWith()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/endsWith), [`startsWith()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/startsWith), and [`includes()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/includes) throw a {{jsxref("TypeError")}} if the first argument is a regex.
- [`String.prototype.matchAll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/matchAll) and [`replaceAll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replaceAll) check whether the [global](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/global) flag is set if the first argument is a regex before invoking its [`@@matchAll`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/matchAll) or [`@@replace`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/replace) method.
- The [`RegExp()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/RegExp) constructor directly returns the `pattern` argument only if `pattern` is a regex (among a few other conditions). If `pattern` is a regex, it would also interrogate `pattern`'s `source` and `flags` properties instead of coercing `pattern` to a string.

For example, [`String.prototype.endsWith()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/endsWith) would coerce all inputs to strings, but it would throw if the argument is a regex, because it's only designed to match strings, and using a regex is likely a developer mistake.

```js
"foobar".endsWith({ toString: () => "bar" }); // true
"foobar".endsWith(/bar/); // TypeError: First argument to String.prototype.endsWith must not be a regular expression
```

You can get around the check by setting `@@match` to a [falsy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) value that's not `undefined`. This would mean that the regex cannot be used for `String.prototype.match()` (since without `@@match`, `match()` would construct a new `RegExp` object with the two enclosing slashes added by [`re.toString()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/toString)), but it can be used for virtually everything else.

```js
const re = /bar/g;
re[Symbol.match] = false;
"/bar/g".endsWith(re); // true
re.exec("bar"); // [ 'bar', index: 0, input: 'bar', groups: undefined ]
"bar & bar".replace(re, "foo"); // 'foo & foo'
```

### Perl-like RegExp properties

Note that several of the {{jsxref("RegExp")}} properties have both long and short (Perl-like) names. Both names always refer to the same value. (Perl is the programming language from which JavaScript modeled its regular expressions.) See also [deprecated `RegExp` properties](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Deprecated_and_obsolete_features#regexp).

## Constructor

- {{jsxref("RegExp/RegExp", "RegExp()")}}
  - : Creates a new `RegExp` object.

## Static properties

- {{jsxref("RegExp/n", "RegExp.$1, …, RegExp.$9")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : Static read-only properties that contain parenthesized substring matches.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.input", "RegExp.input ($_)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static property that contains the last string against which a regular expression was successfully matched.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.lastMatch", "RegExp.lastMatch ($&)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the last matched substring.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.lastParen", "RegExp.lastParen ($+)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the last parenthesized substring match.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.leftContext", "RegExp.leftContext ($`)")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the substring preceding the most recent match.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.rightContext", "RegExp.rightContext ($')")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : A static read-only property that contains the substring following the most recent match.
- {{jsxref("RegExp/@@species", "RegExp[@@species]")}}
  - : The constructor function that is used to create derived objects.

## Instance properties

These properties are defined on `RegExp.prototype` and shared by all `RegExp` instances.

- {{jsxref("Object/constructor", "RegExp.prototype.constructor")}}
  - : The constructor function that created the instance object. For `RegExp` instances, the initial value is the {{jsxref("RegExp/RegExp", "RegExp")}} constructor.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.dotAll")}}
  - : Whether `.` matches newlines or not.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.flags")}}
  - : A string that contains the flags of the `RegExp` object.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.global")}}
  - : Whether to test the regular expression against all possible matches in a string, or only against the first.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.hasIndices")}}
  - : Whether the regular expression result exposes the start and end indices of captured substrings.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.ignoreCase")}}
  - : Whether to ignore case while attempting a match in a string.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.multiline")}}
  - : Whether or not to search in strings across multiple lines.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.source")}}
  - : The text of the pattern.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.sticky")}}
  - : Whether or not the search is sticky.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.unicode")}}
  - : Whether or not Unicode features are enabled.

These properties are own properties of each `RegExp` instance.

- {{jsxref("RegExp/lastIndex", "lastIndex")}}
  - : The index at which to start the next match.

## Instance methods

- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.compile()")}} {{Deprecated_Inline}}
  - : (Re-)compiles a regular expression during execution of a script.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.exec()")}}
  - : Executes a search for a match in its string parameter.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.test()")}}
  - : Tests for a match in its string parameter.
- {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.toString()")}}
  - : Returns a string representing the specified object. Overrides the {{jsxref("Object.prototype.toString()")}} method.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@match]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@match)
  - : Performs match to given string and returns match result.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@matchAll]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@matchAll)
  - : Returns all matches of the regular expression against a string.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@replace]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@replace)
  - : Replaces matches in given string with new substring.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@search]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@search)
  - : Searches the match in given string and returns the index the pattern found in the string.
- [`RegExp.prototype[@@split]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/@@split)
  - : Splits given string into an array by separating the string into substrings.

## Examples

### Using a regular expression to change data format

The following script uses the {{jsxref("String.prototype.replace()", "replace()")}} method of the {{jsxref("Global_Objects/String", "String")}} instance to match a name in the format _first last_ and output it in the format _last, first_.

In the replacement text, the script uses `$1` and `$2` to indicate the results of the corresponding matching parentheses in the regular expression pattern.

```js
const re = /(\w+)\s(\w+)/;
const str = "Maria Cruz";
const newstr = str.replace(re, "$2, $1");
console.log(newstr);
```

This displays `"Cruz, Maria"`.

### Using regular expression to split lines with different line endings/ends of line/line breaks

The default line ending varies depending on the platform (Unix, Windows, etc.). The line splitting provided in this example works on all platforms.

```js
const text = "Some text\nAnd some more\r\nAnd yet\rThis is the end";
const lines = text.split(/\r\n|\r|\n/);
console.log(lines); // [ 'Some text', 'And some more', 'And yet', 'This is the end' ]
```

Note that the order of the patterns in the regular expression matters.

### Using regular expression on multiple lines

```js
const s = "Please yes\nmake my day!";

s.match(/yes.*day/);
// Returns null

s.match(/yes[^]*day/);
// Returns ["yes\nmake my day"]
```

### Using a regular expression with the sticky flag

The {{jsxref("Global_Objects/RegExp/sticky", "sticky")}} flag indicates that the regular expression performs sticky matching in the target string by attempting to match starting at {{jsxref("RegExp.prototype.lastIndex")}}.

```js
const str = "#foo#";
const regex = /foo/y;

regex.lastIndex = 1;
regex.test(str); // true
regex.lastIndex = 5;
regex.test(str); // false (lastIndex is taken into account with sticky flag)
regex.lastIndex; // 0 (reset after match failure)
```

### The difference between the sticky flag and the global flag

With the sticky flag `y`, the next match has to happen at the `lastIndex` position, while with the global flag `g`, the match can happen at the `lastIndex` position or later:

```js
const re = /\d/y;
let r;
while ((r = re.exec("123 456"))) {
  console.log(r, "AND re.lastIndex", re.lastIndex);
}

// [ '1', index: 0, input: '123 456', groups: undefined ] AND re.lastIndex 1
// [ '2', index: 1, input: '123 456', groups: undefined ] AND re.lastIndex 2
// [ '3', index: 2, input: '123 456', groups: undefined ] AND re.lastIndex 3
//  … and no more match.
```

With the global flag `g`, all 6 digits would be matched, not just 3.

### Regular expression and Unicode characters

`\w` and `\W` only matches ASCII based characters; for example, `a` to `z`, `A` to `Z`, `0` to `9`, and `_`.

To match characters from other languages such as Cyrillic or Hebrew, use `\uhhhh`, where `hhhh` is the character's Unicode value in hexadecimal.

This example demonstrates how one can separate out Unicode characters from a word.

```js
const text = "Образец text на русском языке";
const regex = /[\u0400-\u04FF]+/g;

const match = regex.exec(text);
console.log(match[0]); // 'Образец'
console.log(regex.lastIndex); // 7

const match2 = regex.exec(text);
console.log(match2[0]); // 'на' (did not log 'text')
console.log(regex.lastIndex); // 15

// and so on
```

The [Unicode property escapes](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Unicode_character_class_escape) feature provides a simpler way to target particular Unicode ranges, by allowing for statements like `\p{scx=Cyrl}` (to match any Cyrillic letter), or `\p{L}/u` (to match a letter from any language).

### Extracting subdomain name from URL

```js
const url = "http://xxx.domain.com";
console.log(/^https?:\/\/(.+?)\./.exec(url)[1]); // 'xxx'
```

> **Note:** Instead of using regular expressions for parsing URLs, it is usually better to use the browsers built-in URL parser by using the [URL API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL_API).

### Building a regular expression from dynamic inputs

```js
const breakfasts = ["bacon", "eggs", "oatmeal", "toast", "cereal"];
const order = "Let me get some bacon and eggs, please";

order.match(new RegExp(`\\b(${breakfasts.join("|")})\\b`, "g"));
// Returns ['bacon', 'eggs']
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

### Firefox-specific notes

Starting with Firefox 34, in the case of a capturing group with quantifiers preventing its exercise, the matched text for a capturing group is now `undefined` instead of an empty string:

```js
// Firefox 33 or older
"x".replace(/x(.)?/g, (m, group) => {
  console.log(`group: ${JSON.stringify(group)}`);
});
// group: ""

// Firefox 34 or newer
"x".replace(/x(.)?/g, (m, group) => {
  console.log(`group: ${group}`);
});
// group: undefined
```

Note that due to web compatibility, `RegExp.$N` will still return an empty string instead of `undefined` ([bug 1053944](https://bugzil.la/1053944)).

## See also

- [Polyfill of many modern `RegExp` features (`dotAll`, `sticky` flags, named capture groups, etc.) in `core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#ecmascript-string-and-regexp)
- [Regular expressions guide](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions)
- [Regular expressions reference](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions)
- {{jsxref("String.prototype.match()")}}
- {{jsxref("String.prototype.replace()")}}
- {{jsxref("String.prototype.split()")}}
