files/en-us/web/api/fetch/index.md, before:

---
title: fetch()
slug: Web/API/fetch
page-type: web-api-global-function
browser-compat: api.fetch
---

{{APIRef("Fetch API")}}

The global **`fetch()`** method starts the process of fetching a
resource from the network, returning a promise which is fulfilled once the response is
available.

The promise resolves to the {{domxref("Response")}} object
representing the response to your request.

A {{domxref("fetch()")}} promise only rejects when a
network error is encountered (which is usually when there's a permissions issue or
similar). A {{domxref("fetch()")}} promise _does
not_ reject on HTTP errors (`404`, etc.). Instead, a
`then()` handler must check the {{domxref("Response.ok")}} and/or
{{domxref("Response.status")}} properties.

`WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope` is implemented by both {{domxref("Window")}} and
{{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope")}}, which means that the `fetch()` method is
available in pretty much any context in which you might want to fetch resources.

The `fetch()` method is controlled by the `connect-src` directive
of [Content Security Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy)
rather than the directive of the resources it's retrieving.

> **Note:** The `fetch()` method's parameters are identical to
> those of the {{domxref("Request.Request","Request()")}} constructor.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
fetch(resource)
fetch(resource, options)
```

### Parameters

- `resource`

  - : This defines the resource that you wish to fetch. This can either be:

    - A string or any other object with a {{Glossary("stringifier")}} — including a {{domxref("URL")}} object — that provides the URL of the resource you want to fetch.
    - A {{domxref("Request")}} object.

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An object containing any custom settings that you want to apply to the request. The
    possible options are:

    - `method`
      - : The request method, e.g., `GET`, `POST`. Note that the
        {{httpheader("Origin")}} header is not set on Fetch requests with a method of
        {{HTTPMethod("HEAD")}} or {{HTTPMethod("GET")}}.
        (This behavior was corrected in Firefox 65 — see [Firefox bug 1508661](https://bugzil.la/1508661).)
    - `headers`
      - : Any headers you want to add to your request, contained within a
        {{domxref("Headers")}} object or an object literal with {{jsxref("String")}}
        values. Note that [some names are forbidden](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Forbidden_header_name).
    - `body`
      - : Any body that you want to add to your request:
        this can be a {{domxref("Blob")}}, an {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}}, a {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}, a {{jsxref("DataView")}},
        a {{domxref("FormData")}}, a {{domxref("URLSearchParams")}}, string object or literal,
        or a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}} object. This latest possibility is still experimental; check the [compatibility information](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request#browser_compatibility) to verify you can use it.
        Note that a request using the `GET` or `HEAD` method cannot have a body.
    - `mode`
      - : The mode you want to use for the request, e.g., `cors`,
        `no-cors`, or `same-origin`.
    - `credentials`

      - : Controls what browsers do with credentials ([cookies](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies), [HTTP authentication](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication) entries, and TLS client certificates). Must be one of the following strings:

        - `omit`
          - : Tells browsers to exclude credentials from the request, and ignore any credentials sent back in the response (e.g., any {{HTTPHeader("Set-Cookie")}} header).
        - `same-origin`
          - : Tells browsers to include credentials with requests to same-origin URLs, and use any credentials sent back in responses from same-origin URLs. **This is the default value.**
        - `include`

          - : Tells browsers to include credentials in both same- and cross-origin requests, and always use any credentials sent back in responses.

            > **Note:** Credentials may be included in simple and "final" cross-origin requests, but should not be included in [CORS preflight requests](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#preflight_requests_and_credentials).

    - `cache`
      - : A string indicating how the request will interact with the browser's [HTTP cache](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching). The possible values, `default`, `no-store`, `reload`, `no-cache`, `force-cache`, and `only-if-cached`, are documented in the article for the {{domxref("Request/cache", "cache")}} property of the {{domxref("Request")}} object.
    - `redirect`

      - : How to handle a `redirect` response:

        - `follow`: Automatically follow redirects. Unless otherwise stated the redirect mode is set to `follow`.
        - `error`: Abort with an error if a redirect occurs.
        - `manual`: Caller intends to process the response in another context.
          See [WHATWG fetch standard](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-request-redirect-mode) for more information.

    - `referrer`
      - : A string specifying the referrer of the request. This can be a
        same-origin URL, `about:client`, or an empty string.
    - `referrerPolicy`
      - : Specifies the [referrer policy](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-referrer-policy/#referrer-policies) to use for the request. May be one of `no-referrer`,
        `no-referrer-when-downgrade`, `same-origin`,
        `origin`, `strict-origin`,
        `origin-when-cross-origin`,
        `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`, or `unsafe-url`.
    - `integrity`
      - : Contains the [subresource integrity](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity)
        value of the request (e.g.,
        `sha256-BpfBw7ivV8q2jLiT13fxDYAe2tJllusRSZ273h2nFSE=`).
    - `keepalive`
      - : The `keepalive` option can be used to allow the request to outlive
        the page. Fetch with the `keepalive` flag is a replacement for the
        {{domxref("Navigator.sendBeacon()")}} API.
    - `signal`
      - : An {{domxref("AbortSignal")}} object instance; allows you to communicate with a
        fetch request and abort it if desired via an {{domxref("AbortController")}}.
    - `priority`
      - : Specifies the priority of the fetch request relative to other requests of the same type. Must be one of the following strings:
        - `high`: A high priority fetch request relative to other requests of the same type.
        - `low`: A low priority fetch request relative to other requests of the same type.
        - `auto`: Automatically determine the priority of the fetch request relative to other requests of the same type (default).

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to a {{domxref("Response")}} object.

### Exceptions

- `AbortError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The request was aborted due to a call to the {{domxref("AbortController")}}
    {{domxref("AbortController.abort", "abort()")}} method.
- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}
  - : Can occur for the following reasons:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Reason</th>
      <th scope="col">Failing examples</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Invalid header name.</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
// space in "C ontent-Type"
const headers = {
  'C ontent-Type': 'text/xml',
  'Breaking-Bad': '<3',
};
fetch('https://example.com/', { headers });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Invalid header value. The header object must contain exactly two elements.
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
const headers = [
  ['Content-Type', 'text/html', 'extra'],
  ['Accept'],
];
fetch('https://example.com/', { headers });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Invalid URL or scheme, or using a scheme that fetch does not support, or using a scheme that is not supported for a particular request mode.
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('blob://example.com/', { mode: 'cors' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
      <td>URL includes credentials.</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://user:password@example.com/');
        </pre>
      </td>
    <tr>
      <td>Invalid referrer URL.</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', { referrer: './abc\u0000df' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Invalid modes (<code>navigate</code> and <code>websocket</code>).</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', { mode: 'navigate' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request cache mode is "only-if-cached" and the request mode is other than "same-origin".
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', {
  cache: 'only-if-cached',
  mode: 'no-cors',
});
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request method is an invalid name token or one of forbidden headers
        (<code>'CONNECT'</code>, <code>'TRACE'</code> or <code>'TRACK'</code>).
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', { method: 'CONNECT' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request mode is "no-cors" and the request method is not a CORS-safe-listed method
        (<code>'GET'</code>, <code>'HEAD'</code>, or <code>'POST'</code>).
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', {
  method: 'CONNECT',
  mode: 'no-cors',
});
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request method is <code>'GET'</code> or <code>'HEAD'</code> and the body is non-null or not undefined.
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', {
  method: 'GET',
  body: new FormData(),
});
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>If fetch throws a network error.</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Examples

In our [Fetch Request example](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/fetch/fetch-request) (see [Fetch Request live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/fetch/fetch-request/)) we
create a new {{domxref("Request")}} object using the relevant constructor, then fetch it
using a `fetch()` call. Since we are fetching an image, we run
{{domxref("Response.blob()")}} on the response to give it the proper MIME type so it will be
handled properly, then create an Object URL of it and display it in an
{{htmlelement("img")}} element.

```js
const myImage = document.querySelector("img");

const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg");

fetch(myRequest)
  .then((response) => {
    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`HTTP error! Status: ${response.status}`);
    }

    return response.blob();
  })
  .then((response) => {
    myImage.src = URL.createObjectURL(response);
  });
```

In the [Fetch with init then Request example](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/fetch/fetch-with-init-then-request/index.html) (see [Fetch Request init live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/fetch/fetch-with-init-then-request/)), we do the same thing except that we pass in an
`init` object when we invoke `fetch()`:

```js
const myImage = document.querySelector("img");

const myHeaders = new Headers();
myHeaders.append("Accept", "image/jpeg");

const myInit = {
  method: "GET",
  headers: myHeaders,
  mode: "cors",
  cache: "default",
};

const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg");

fetch(myRequest, myInit).then((response) => {
  // …
});
```

You could also pass the `init` object in with the
`Request` constructor to get the same effect:

```js
const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg", myInit);
```

You can also use an object literal as `headers` in
`init`.

```js
const myInit = {
  method: "GET",
  headers: {
    Accept: "image/jpeg",
  },
  mode: "cors",
  cache: "default",
};

const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg", myInit);
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Fetch API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)
- [ServiceWorker API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API)
- [HTTP access control (CORS)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
- [HTTP](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP)

Commit message:

Add information about fetch method (#25020)
* Add information about fetch method

Same call, using lowercased patch and lowercased post don't have the same behavior. I think we should document it.

```js
// method in HTTP will be `POST`
const res = await fetch(url, {
  method: 'post',
  headers: { "Authorization": token, "Content-Type": 'application/json' },
  body: JSON.stringify(payload)
});

// method in HTTP will be `patch`
const res = await fetch(url, {
  method: 'patch',
  body: JSON.stringify(payload)
});
```

* Update files/en-us/web/api/fetch/index.md

---------

Co-authored-by: wbamberg <will@bootbonnet.ca>

files/en-us/web/api/fetch/index.md, after:

---
title: fetch()
slug: Web/API/fetch
page-type: web-api-global-function
browser-compat: api.fetch
---

{{APIRef("Fetch API")}}

The global **`fetch()`** method starts the process of fetching a
resource from the network, returning a promise which is fulfilled once the response is
available.

The promise resolves to the {{domxref("Response")}} object
representing the response to your request.

A {{domxref("fetch()")}} promise only rejects when a
network error is encountered (which is usually when there's a permissions issue or
similar). A {{domxref("fetch()")}} promise _does
not_ reject on HTTP errors (`404`, etc.). Instead, a
`then()` handler must check the {{domxref("Response.ok")}} and/or
{{domxref("Response.status")}} properties.

`WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope` is implemented by both {{domxref("Window")}} and
{{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope")}}, which means that the `fetch()` method is
available in pretty much any context in which you might want to fetch resources.

The `fetch()` method is controlled by the `connect-src` directive
of [Content Security Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy)
rather than the directive of the resources it's retrieving.

> **Note:** The `fetch()` method's parameters are identical to
> those of the {{domxref("Request.Request","Request()")}} constructor.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
fetch(resource)
fetch(resource, options)
```

### Parameters

- `resource`

  - : This defines the resource that you wish to fetch. This can either be:

    - A string or any other object with a {{Glossary("stringifier")}} — including a {{domxref("URL")}} object — that provides the URL of the resource you want to fetch.
    - A {{domxref("Request")}} object.

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An object containing any custom settings that you want to apply to the request. The
    possible options are:

    - `method`
      - : The request method, e.g., `GET`, `POST`. Note that the
        {{httpheader("Origin")}} header is not set on Fetch requests with a method of
        {{HTTPMethod("HEAD")}} or {{HTTPMethod("GET")}}.
        (This behavior was corrected in Firefox 65 — see [Firefox bug 1508661](https://bugzil.la/1508661).)
        Any string which is a case-insensitive match for one of the methods in [RFC 9110](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#name-overview ) will be uppercased automatically. If you want to use a custom method (like `PATCH`), you should uppercase it yourself.
    - `headers`
      - : Any headers you want to add to your request, contained within a
        {{domxref("Headers")}} object or an object literal with {{jsxref("String")}}
        values. Note that [some names are forbidden](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Forbidden_header_name).
    - `body`
      - : Any body that you want to add to your request:
        this can be a {{domxref("Blob")}}, an {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}}, a {{jsxref("TypedArray")}}, a {{jsxref("DataView")}},
        a {{domxref("FormData")}}, a {{domxref("URLSearchParams")}}, string object or literal,
        or a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}} object. This latest possibility is still experimental; check the [compatibility information](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request#browser_compatibility) to verify you can use it.
        Note that a request using the `GET` or `HEAD` method cannot have a body.
    - `mode`
      - : The mode you want to use for the request, e.g., `cors`,
        `no-cors`, or `same-origin`.
    - `credentials`

      - : Controls what browsers do with credentials ([cookies](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies), [HTTP authentication](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication) entries, and TLS client certificates). Must be one of the following strings:

        - `omit`
          - : Tells browsers to exclude credentials from the request, and ignore any credentials sent back in the response (e.g., any {{HTTPHeader("Set-Cookie")}} header).
        - `same-origin`
          - : Tells browsers to include credentials with requests to same-origin URLs, and use any credentials sent back in responses from same-origin URLs. **This is the default value.**
        - `include`

          - : Tells browsers to include credentials in both same- and cross-origin requests, and always use any credentials sent back in responses.

            > **Note:** Credentials may be included in simple and "final" cross-origin requests, but should not be included in [CORS preflight requests](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#preflight_requests_and_credentials).

    - `cache`
      - : A string indicating how the request will interact with the browser's [HTTP cache](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching). The possible values, `default`, `no-store`, `reload`, `no-cache`, `force-cache`, and `only-if-cached`, are documented in the article for the {{domxref("Request/cache", "cache")}} property of the {{domxref("Request")}} object.
    - `redirect`

      - : How to handle a `redirect` response:

        - `follow`: Automatically follow redirects. Unless otherwise stated the redirect mode is set to `follow`.
        - `error`: Abort with an error if a redirect occurs.
        - `manual`: Caller intends to process the response in another context.
          See [WHATWG fetch standard](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-request-redirect-mode) for more information.

    - `referrer`
      - : A string specifying the referrer of the request. This can be a
        same-origin URL, `about:client`, or an empty string.
    - `referrerPolicy`
      - : Specifies the [referrer policy](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-referrer-policy/#referrer-policies) to use for the request. May be one of `no-referrer`,
        `no-referrer-when-downgrade`, `same-origin`,
        `origin`, `strict-origin`,
        `origin-when-cross-origin`,
        `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`, or `unsafe-url`.
    - `integrity`
      - : Contains the [subresource integrity](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity)
        value of the request (e.g.,
        `sha256-BpfBw7ivV8q2jLiT13fxDYAe2tJllusRSZ273h2nFSE=`).
    - `keepalive`
      - : The `keepalive` option can be used to allow the request to outlive
        the page. Fetch with the `keepalive` flag is a replacement for the
        {{domxref("Navigator.sendBeacon()")}} API.
    - `signal`
      - : An {{domxref("AbortSignal")}} object instance; allows you to communicate with a
        fetch request and abort it if desired via an {{domxref("AbortController")}}.
    - `priority`
      - : Specifies the priority of the fetch request relative to other requests of the same type. Must be one of the following strings:
        - `high`: A high priority fetch request relative to other requests of the same type.
        - `low`: A low priority fetch request relative to other requests of the same type.
        - `auto`: Automatically determine the priority of the fetch request relative to other requests of the same type (default).

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves to a {{domxref("Response")}} object.

### Exceptions

- `AbortError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The request was aborted due to a call to the {{domxref("AbortController")}}
    {{domxref("AbortController.abort", "abort()")}} method.
- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}
  - : Can occur for the following reasons:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Reason</th>
      <th scope="col">Failing examples</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Invalid header name.</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
// space in "C ontent-Type"
const headers = {
  'C ontent-Type': 'text/xml',
  'Breaking-Bad': '<3',
};
fetch('https://example.com/', { headers });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Invalid header value. The header object must contain exactly two elements.
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
const headers = [
  ['Content-Type', 'text/html', 'extra'],
  ['Accept'],
];
fetch('https://example.com/', { headers });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Invalid URL or scheme, or using a scheme that fetch does not support, or using a scheme that is not supported for a particular request mode.
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('blob://example.com/', { mode: 'cors' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
      <td>URL includes credentials.</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://user:password@example.com/');
        </pre>
      </td>
    <tr>
      <td>Invalid referrer URL.</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', { referrer: './abc\u0000df' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Invalid modes (<code>navigate</code> and <code>websocket</code>).</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', { mode: 'navigate' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request cache mode is "only-if-cached" and the request mode is other than "same-origin".
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', {
  cache: 'only-if-cached',
  mode: 'no-cors',
});
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request method is an invalid name token or one of forbidden headers
        (<code>'CONNECT'</code>, <code>'TRACE'</code> or <code>'TRACK'</code>).
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', { method: 'CONNECT' });
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request mode is "no-cors" and the request method is not a CORS-safe-listed method
        (<code>'GET'</code>, <code>'HEAD'</code>, or <code>'POST'</code>).
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', {
  method: 'CONNECT',
  mode: 'no-cors',
});
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        If the request method is <code>'GET'</code> or <code>'HEAD'</code> and the body is non-null or not undefined.
      </td>
      <td>
        <pre>
fetch('https://example.com/', {
  method: 'GET',
  body: new FormData(),
});
        </pre>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>If fetch throws a network error.</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Examples

In our [Fetch Request example](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/fetch/fetch-request) (see [Fetch Request live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/fetch/fetch-request/)) we
create a new {{domxref("Request")}} object using the relevant constructor, then fetch it
using a `fetch()` call. Since we are fetching an image, we run
{{domxref("Response.blob()")}} on the response to give it the proper MIME type so it will be
handled properly, then create an Object URL of it and display it in an
{{htmlelement("img")}} element.

```js
const myImage = document.querySelector("img");

const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg");

fetch(myRequest)
  .then((response) => {
    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`HTTP error! Status: ${response.status}`);
    }

    return response.blob();
  })
  .then((response) => {
    myImage.src = URL.createObjectURL(response);
  });
```

In the [Fetch with init then Request example](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/fetch/fetch-with-init-then-request/index.html) (see [Fetch Request init live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/fetch/fetch-with-init-then-request/)), we do the same thing except that we pass in an
`init` object when we invoke `fetch()`:

```js
const myImage = document.querySelector("img");

const myHeaders = new Headers();
myHeaders.append("Accept", "image/jpeg");

const myInit = {
  method: "GET",
  headers: myHeaders,
  mode: "cors",
  cache: "default",
};

const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg");

fetch(myRequest, myInit).then((response) => {
  // …
});
```

You could also pass the `init` object in with the
`Request` constructor to get the same effect:

```js
const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg", myInit);
```

You can also use an object literal as `headers` in
`init`.

```js
const myInit = {
  method: "GET",
  headers: {
    Accept: "image/jpeg",
  },
  mode: "cors",
  cache: "default",
};

const myRequest = new Request("flowers.jpg", myInit);
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Fetch API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)
- [ServiceWorker API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API)
- [HTTP access control (CORS)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
- [HTTP](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP)
