files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/devtools/panels/extensionsidebarpane/onshown/index.md, before:

---
title: devtools.panels.ExtensionSidebarPane.onShown
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/devtools/panels/ExtensionSidebarPane/onShown
page-type: webextension-api-event
browser-compat: webextensions.api.devtools.panels.ExtensionSidebarPane.onShown
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

Fired when the sidebar pane becomes visible as a result of the user switching to it.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
browser.devtools.panels.onShown.addListener(listener)
browser.devtools.panels.onShown.removeListener(listener)
browser.devtools.panels.onShown.hasListener(listener)
```

Events have three functions:

- `addListener(callback)`
  - : Adds a listener to this event.
- `removeListener(listener)`
  - : Stop listening to this event. The `listener` argument is the listener to remove.
- `hasListener(listener)`
  - : Check whether `listener` is registered for this event. Returns `true` if it is listening, `false` otherwise.

## addListener syntax

### Parameters

- `callback`
  - : Function that will be called when this event occurs. The function will be passed no arguments.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## Examples

Create a sidebar pane, and log show and hide events.

```js
function onCreated(sidebarPane) {

  sidebarPane.onShown.addListener(() => {
    console.log("Shown");
  });

  sidebarPane.onHidden.addListener(() => {
    console.log("Hidden");
  });

}

browser.devtools.panels.elements.createSidebarPane("My pane").then(onCreated);
```

{{WebExtExamples}}

> **Note:** This API is based on Chromium's [`chrome.devtools.panels`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/devtools_panels/) API.

Commit message:

Align on use of listener (#26953)
* Align on use of listener

* Apply suggestions from review

Co-authored-by: Rob Wu <rob@robwu.nl>

* Add window argument to listener parameter in ExtensionSidebarPane.onShown

* Apply suggestions from review

---------

Co-authored-by: Rob Wu <rob@robwu.nl>

files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/devtools/panels/extensionsidebarpane/onshown/index.md, after:

---
title: devtools.panels.ExtensionSidebarPane.onShown
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/devtools/panels/ExtensionSidebarPane/onShown
page-type: webextension-api-event
browser-compat: webextensions.api.devtools.panels.ExtensionSidebarPane.onShown
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

Fired when the sidebar pane becomes visible as a result of the user switching to it.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
browser.devtools.panels.onShown.addListener(listener)
browser.devtools.panels.onShown.removeListener(listener)
browser.devtools.panels.onShown.hasListener(listener)
```

Events have three functions:

- `addListener(listener)`
  - : Adds a listener to this event.
- `removeListener(listener)`
  - : Stop listening to this event. The `listener` argument is the listener to remove.
- `hasListener(listener)`
  - : Check whether `listener` is registered for this event. Returns `true` if it is listening, `false` otherwise.

## addListener syntax

### Parameters

- `listener`
  - : The function called when this event occurs. The function is passed this argument:

    - `window`
      - : `object`. The {{DOMxRef("window")}} object of the sidebar page, if a page was set with {{WebExtAPIRef("devtools.panels.ExtensionSidebarPane.setPage()","setPage()")}}.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## Examples

Create a sidebar pane, and log show and hide events.

```js
function onCreated(sidebarPane) {

  sidebarPane.onShown.addListener(() => {
    console.log("Shown");
  });

  sidebarPane.onHidden.addListener(() => {
    console.log("Hidden");
  });

}

browser.devtools.panels.elements.createSidebarPane("My pane").then(onCreated);
```

{{WebExtExamples}}

> **Note:** This API is based on Chromium's [`chrome.devtools.panels`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/devtools_panels/) API.
