files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/symbol/species/index.md, before:

---
title: Symbol.species
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/species
page-type: javascript-static-data-property
tags:
  - ECMAScript 2015
  - JavaScript
  - Property
  - Symbol
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Symbol.species
---

{{JSRef}}

The well-known symbol **`Symbol.species`** specifies a function-valued property that the constructor function uses to create derived objects.

> **Warning:** The existence of `@@species` allows execution of arbitrary code and may create security vulnerabilities. It also makes certain optimizations much harder. Engine implementers are [investigating whether to remove this feature](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-rm-builtin-subclassing). Avoid relying on it if possible.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/symbol-species.html")}}

## Value

The well-known symbol `@@species`.

{{js_property_attributes(0, 0, 0)}}

## Description

The `@@species` accessor property allows subclasses to override the default constructor for objects. This specifies a protocol about how instances should be copied. For example, when you use copying methods of arrays, such as {{jsxref("Array/map", "map()")}}. the `map()` method uses `instance.constructor[Symbol.species]` to get the constructor for constructing the new array. For more information, see [subclassing built-ins](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/extends#subclassing_built-ins).

All built-in implementations of `@@species` return the `this` value, which is the current instance's constructor. This allows copying methods to create instances of derived classes rather than the base class — for example, `map()` will return an array of the same type as the original array.

## Examples

### Using species

You might want to return {{jsxref("Array")}} objects in your derived array class `MyArray`. For example, when using methods such as {{jsxref("Array/map", "map()")}} that return the default constructor, you want these methods to return a parent `Array` object, instead of the `MyArray` object. The `species` symbol lets you do this:

```js
class MyArray extends Array {
  // Overwrite species to the parent Array constructor
  static get [Symbol.species]() {
    return Array;
  }
}
const a = new MyArray(1, 2, 3);
const mapped = a.map((x) => x * x);

console.log(mapped instanceof MyArray); // false
console.log(mapped instanceof Array); // true
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Array.@@species", "Array[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer.@@species", "ArrayBuffer[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("Map.@@species", "Map[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("Promise.@@species", "Promise[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.@@species", "RegExp[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("Set.@@species", "Set[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("TypedArray.@@species", "TypedArray[@@species]")}}

Commit message:

Tighten static properties intro paragraph format (#23879)

files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/symbol/species/index.md, after:

---
title: Symbol.species
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/species
page-type: javascript-static-data-property
tags:
  - ECMAScript 2015
  - JavaScript
  - Property
  - Symbol
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Symbol.species
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Symbol.species`** static data property represents the well-known symbol specifying the method that a constructor function uses to create derived objects.

> **Warning:** The existence of `@@species` allows execution of arbitrary code and may create security vulnerabilities. It also makes certain optimizations much harder. Engine implementers are [investigating whether to remove this feature](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-rm-builtin-subclassing). Avoid relying on it if possible.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/symbol-species.html")}}

## Value

The well-known symbol `@@species`.

{{js_property_attributes(0, 0, 0)}}

## Description

The `@@species` accessor property allows subclasses to override the default constructor for objects. This specifies a protocol about how instances should be copied. For example, when you use copying methods of arrays, such as {{jsxref("Array/map", "map()")}}. the `map()` method uses `instance.constructor[Symbol.species]` to get the constructor for constructing the new array. For more information, see [subclassing built-ins](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/extends#subclassing_built-ins).

All built-in implementations of `@@species` return the `this` value, which is the current instance's constructor. This allows copying methods to create instances of derived classes rather than the base class — for example, `map()` will return an array of the same type as the original array.

## Examples

### Using species

You might want to return {{jsxref("Array")}} objects in your derived array class `MyArray`. For example, when using methods such as {{jsxref("Array/map", "map()")}} that return the default constructor, you want these methods to return a parent `Array` object, instead of the `MyArray` object. The `species` symbol lets you do this:

```js
class MyArray extends Array {
  // Overwrite species to the parent Array constructor
  static get [Symbol.species]() {
    return Array;
  }
}
const a = new MyArray(1, 2, 3);
const mapped = a.map((x) => x * x);

console.log(mapped instanceof MyArray); // false
console.log(mapped instanceof Array); // true
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{jsxref("Array.@@species", "Array[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer.@@species", "ArrayBuffer[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("Map.@@species", "Map[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("Promise.@@species", "Promise[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("RegExp.@@species", "RegExp[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("Set.@@species", "Set[@@species]")}}
- {{jsxref("TypedArray.@@species", "TypedArray[@@species]")}}
