files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/inert/index.md, before:

---
title: "HTMLElement: inert property"
short-title: inert
slug: Web/API/HTMLElement/inert
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLElement.inert
---

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

The {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} property **`inert`** reflects the value of the element's [`inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/inert) attribute. It is a boolean value that, when present, makes the browser "ignore" user input events for the element, including focus events and events from assistive technologies. The browser may also ignore page search and text selection in the element. This can be useful when building UIs such as modals where you would want to "trap" the focus inside the modal when it's visible.

## Value

A Boolean which is `true` if the element is inert; otherwise, the value is `false`.

## Example

### HTML

```html
<div>
  <label for="button1">Button 1</label>
  <button id="button1">I am not inert</button>
</div>
<div inert>
  <label for="button2">Button 2</label>
  <button id="button2">I am inert</button>
</div>
```

### CSS

```css
[inert] > * {
  opacity: 0.5;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example', 560, 200) }}

> **Note:** This attribute, by itself, will not cause any visual change to the content as displayed in the browser. In the example above, CSS has been applied so that any direct descendant of an element with the inert attribute is rendered semi-opaque.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Global attribute: `inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/inert)
- {{HTMLElement("dialog")}}
- [Inert Polyfill](https://github.com/WICG/inert)
- {{domxref("HTMLInputElement.disabled", "disabled")}}

Commit message:

added a note about content not being percievable (#25548)
* added a note about content not being percievable

* Update files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/inert/index.md

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>

* Update files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/inert/index.md

Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Estelle Weyl <estelle@openwebdocs.org>
Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/inert/index.md, after:

---
title: "HTMLElement: inert property"
short-title: inert
slug: Web/API/HTMLElement/inert
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLElement.inert
---

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

The {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} property **`inert`** reflects the value of the element's [`inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/inert) attribute. It is a boolean value that, when present, makes the browser "ignore" user input events for the element, including focus events and events from assistive technologies. The browser may also ignore page search and text selection in the element. This can be useful when building UIs such as modals where you would want to "trap" the focus inside the modal when it's visible.

> **Note:** Do not nest interactive elements or important content within elements with the `inert` attribute as inert content and their descendants are neither focusable nor perceivable by all users.

## Value

A Boolean which is `true` if the element is inert; otherwise, the value is `false`.

## Example

### HTML

```html
<div>
  <label for="button1">Button 1</label>
  <button id="button1">I am not inert</button>
</div>
<div inert>
  <label for="button2">Button 2</label>
  <button id="button2">I am inert</button>
</div>
```

### CSS

```css
[inert] > * {
  opacity: 0.5;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example', 560, 200) }}

> **Note:** This attribute, by itself, will not cause any visual change to the content as displayed in the browser. In the example above, CSS has been applied so that any direct descendant of an element with the inert attribute is rendered semi-opaque.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Global attribute: `inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/inert)
- {{HTMLElement("dialog")}}
- [Inert Polyfill](https://github.com/WICG/inert)
- {{domxref("HTMLInputElement.disabled", "disabled")}}
