files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/contenteditable/index.md, before:

---
title: contenteditable
slug: Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat: html.global_attributes.contenteditable
---

{{HTMLSidebar("Global_attributes")}}

The **`contenteditable`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes) is an enumerated attribute indicating if the element should be editable by the user. If so, the browser modifies its widget to allow editing.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/attribute-contenteditable.html","tabbed-shorter")}}

The attribute must take one of the following values:

- `true` or an _empty string_, which indicates that the element is editable.
- `false`, which indicates that the element is not editable.

If the attribute is given without a value, like `<label contenteditable>Example Label</label>`, its value is treated as an empty string.

If this attribute is missing or its value is invalid, its value is _inherited_ from its parent element: so the element is editable if its parent is editable.

Note that although its allowed values include `true` and `false`, this attribute is an _[enumerated](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Enumerated)_ one and not a _Boolean_ one.

You can set the color used to draw the text insertion {{Glossary("caret")}} with the CSS {{cssxref("caret-color")}} property.

Elements that are made editable, and therefore interactive, by using the `contenteditable` attribute can be focused. They participate in sequential keyboard navigation. However, elements with the `contenteditable` attribute nested within other `contenteditable` elements are not added to the tabbing sequence by default. You can add the nested `contenteditable` elements to the keyboard navigation sequence by specifying the `tabindex` value ([`tabindex="0"`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/tabindex)).

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- All [global attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes)
- {{domxref("HTMLElement.contentEditable")}} and {{domxref("HTMLElement.isContentEditable")}}
- The CSS {{cssxref("caret-color")}} property
- [HTMLElement `input` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/input_event)

Commit message:

Update contenteditable to define plaintext-only state (#21875)
* Update contenteditable to define plaintext-only state

* Update files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/contenteditable/index.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu <vinyldarkscratch@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Joshua Chen <sidachen2003@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Florian Scholz <fs@florianscholz.com>

files/en-us/web/html/global_attributes/contenteditable/index.md, after:

---
title: contenteditable
slug: Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable
page-type: html-attribute
browser-compat: html.global_attributes.contenteditable
---

{{HTMLSidebar("Global_attributes")}}

The **`contenteditable`** [global attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes) is an enumerated attribute indicating if the element should be editable by the user. If so, the browser modifies its widget to allow editing.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/attribute-contenteditable.html","tabbed-shorter")}}

The attribute must take one of the following values:

- `true` or an _empty string_, which indicates that the element is editable.
- `false`, which indicates that the element is not editable.
- `plaintext-only`, which indicates that the element's raw text is editable, but rich text formatting is disabled.

If the attribute is given without a value, like `<label contenteditable>Example Label</label>`, its value is treated as an empty string.

If this attribute is missing or its value is invalid, its value is _inherited_ from its parent element: so the element is editable if its parent is editable.

Note that although its allowed values include `true` and `false`, this attribute is an _[enumerated](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Enumerated)_ one and not a _Boolean_ one.

You can set the color used to draw the text insertion {{Glossary("caret")}} with the CSS {{cssxref("caret-color")}} property.

Elements that are made editable, and therefore interactive, by using the `contenteditable` attribute can be focused. They participate in sequential keyboard navigation. However, elements with the `contenteditable` attribute nested within other `contenteditable` elements are not added to the tabbing sequence by default. You can add the nested `contenteditable` elements to the keyboard navigation sequence by specifying the `tabindex` value ([`tabindex="0"`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/tabindex)).

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- All [global attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes)
- {{domxref("HTMLElement.contentEditable")}} and {{domxref("HTMLElement.isContentEditable")}}
- The CSS {{cssxref("caret-color")}} property
- [HTMLElement `input` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/input_event)
