files/en-us/web/api/idbobjectstore/openkeycursor/index.md, before:

---
title: IDBObjectStore.openKeyCursor()
slug: Web/API/IDBObjectStore/openKeyCursor
page-type: web-api-instance-method
tags:
  - API
  - Database
  - IDBObjectStore
  - Method
  - Reference
  - Storage
  - openKeyCursor
browser-compat: api.IDBObjectStore.openKeyCursor
---

{{ APIRef("IndexedDB") }}

The **`openKeyCursor()`** method of the
{{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}} interface returns an {{domxref("IDBRequest")}} object
whose result will be set to an {{domxref("IDBCursor")}} that can be used to iterate
through matching results. Used for iterating through the keys of an object store with
a cursor.

To determine if the add operation has completed successfully, listen for the
results's `success` event.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
openKeyCursor()
openKeyCursor(query)
openKeyCursor(query, direction)
```

### Parameters

- `query` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The key range to be queried. If a single valid key is passed, this will default to a
    range containing only that key. If nothing is passed, this will default to a key range
    that selects all the records in this object store.
- `direction` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An [`IDBCursorDirection`](https://w3c.github.io/IndexedDB/#enumdef-idbcursordirection) telling the cursor what direction to travel.
    Valid values are `"next"`, `"nextunique"`, `"prev"`,
    and `"prevunique"`. The default is `"next"`.

### Return value

An {{domxref("IDBRequest")}} object on which subsequent events related to this
operation are fired.

### Exceptions

This method may raise a {{domxref("DOMException")}} of one of the following types:

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if this {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}} or {{domxref("IDBIndex")}} has been deleted.
- `TransactionInactiveError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if this {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}}'s transaction is inactive.
- `DataError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the specified key or key range is invalid.

## Examples

In this simple fragment we create a transaction, retrieve an object store, then use a
cursor to iterate through all the records in the object store:

```js
const transaction = db.transaction("name", "readonly");
const objectStore = transaction.objectStore("name");
const request = objectStore.openKeyCursor();
request.onsuccess = (event) => {
  const cursor = event.target.result;
  if (cursor) {
    // cursor.key contains the key of the current record being iterated through
    // note that there is no cursor.value, unlike for openCursor
    // this is where you'd do something with the result
    cursor.continue();
  } else {
    // no more results
  }
};
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using IndexedDB](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB)
- Starting transactions: {{domxref("IDBDatabase")}}
- Using transactions: {{domxref("IDBTransaction")}}
- Setting a range of keys: {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}
- Retrieving and making changes to your data: {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}}
- Using cursors: {{domxref("IDBCursor")}}
- Reference example: [To-do Notifications](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/to-do-notifications) ([View the example live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/to-do-notifications/)).

Commit message:

Document IDBRequest.result values (#23421)
Fixes https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/23184

files/en-us/web/api/idbobjectstore/openkeycursor/index.md, after:

---
title: IDBObjectStore.openKeyCursor()
slug: Web/API/IDBObjectStore/openKeyCursor
page-type: web-api-instance-method
tags:
  - API
  - Database
  - IDBObjectStore
  - Method
  - Reference
  - Storage
  - openKeyCursor
browser-compat: api.IDBObjectStore.openKeyCursor
---

{{ APIRef("IndexedDB") }}

The **`openKeyCursor()`** method of the
{{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}} interface returns an {{domxref("IDBRequest")}} object
whose result will be set to an {{domxref("IDBCursor")}} that can be used to iterate
through matching results. Used for iterating through the keys of an object store with
a cursor.

To determine if the add operation has completed successfully, listen for the
results's `success` event.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
openKeyCursor()
openKeyCursor(query)
openKeyCursor(query, direction)
```

### Parameters

- `query` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The key range to be queried. If a single valid key is passed, this will default to a
    range containing only that key. If nothing is passed, this will default to a key range
    that selects all the records in this object store.
- `direction` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An [`IDBCursorDirection`](https://w3c.github.io/IndexedDB/#enumdef-idbcursordirection) telling the cursor what direction to travel.
    Valid values are `"next"`, `"nextunique"`, `"prev"`,
    and `"prevunique"`. The default is `"next"`.

### Return value

An {{domxref("IDBRequest")}} object on which subsequent events related to this operation are fired.

If the operation is successful, the value of the request's {{domxref("IDBRequest.result", "result")}} property is:

- an {{domxref("IDBCursor")}} object pointing at the first record matching the given query
- `null` if no matching records were found.

### Exceptions

This method may raise a {{domxref("DOMException")}} of one of the following types:

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if this {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}} or {{domxref("IDBIndex")}} has been deleted.
- `TransactionInactiveError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if this {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}}'s transaction is inactive.
- `DataError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the specified key or key range is invalid.

## Examples

In this simple fragment we create a transaction, retrieve an object store, then use a
cursor to iterate through all the records in the object store:

```js
const transaction = db.transaction("name", "readonly");
const objectStore = transaction.objectStore("name");
const request = objectStore.openKeyCursor();
request.onsuccess = (event) => {
  const cursor = event.target.result;
  if (cursor) {
    // cursor.key contains the key of the current record being iterated through
    // note that there is no cursor.value, unlike for openCursor
    // this is where you'd do something with the result
    cursor.continue();
  } else {
    // no more results
  }
};
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using IndexedDB](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API/Using_IndexedDB)
- Starting transactions: {{domxref("IDBDatabase")}}
- Using transactions: {{domxref("IDBTransaction")}}
- Setting a range of keys: {{domxref("IDBKeyRange")}}
- Retrieving and making changes to your data: {{domxref("IDBObjectStore")}}
- Using cursors: {{domxref("IDBCursor")}}
- Reference example: [To-do Notifications](https://github.com/mdn/dom-examples/tree/main/to-do-notifications) ([View the example live](https://mdn.github.io/dom-examples/to-do-notifications/)).
