files/en-us/web/css/color_value/rgb/index.md, before:

---
title: rgb()
slug: Web/CSS/color_value/rgb
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.color.rgb
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`rgb()`** functional notation expresses a color according to its red, green, and blue components. An optional alpha component represents the color's transparency.

> **Note:** The legacy `rgba()` syntax is an alias for `rgb()`, accepting the same parameters and behaving in the same way.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/function-rgb.html")}}

## Syntax

```css
/* Syntax with space-separated values */
rgb(255 255 255)
rgb(255 255 255 / .5)

/* Syntax with comma-separated values */
rgb(255, 255, 255)
rgb(255, 255, 255, .5)

/* Legacy rgba() syntax */
rgba(255 255 255)
rgba(255 255 255 / .5)

rgba(255, 255, 255)
rgba(255, 255, 255, .5)
```

The `rgb()` function accepts three space-separated values, representing respectively values for `red`, `green`, and `blue`. Optionally it may also be given a slash `/` followed by a fourth value, representing `alpha`.

The function also accepts a legacy syntax in which all values are separated with commas.

### Values

- `red`, `green`, `blue`

  - : These values represent color channels and may each be a {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}}
    clamped between 0 and 255, or a {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none`. You can't mix percentages and numbers, so:

    - if any of these values is a number, then they must all be numbers or `none`
    - if any of these values is a percentage, then they must all percentages or `none`.

- `alpha`
  - : A {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} clamped between `0` and `1`, or a {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}. This value represents opacity, where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity). It defaults to 100%.

### Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Legacy syntax: comma-separated values

For legacy reasons, the `rgb()` function accepts a form in which all values are separated using commas.

#### HTML

```html
<div class="space-separated"></div>
<div class="comma-separated"></div>
```

#### CSS

```css
div {
  width: 100px;
  height: 50px;
  margin: 1rem;
}

div.space-separated {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

div.comma-separated {
  background-color: rgb(255, 0, 0, 0.5);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Legacy syntax: comma-separated values', '100%', '150px')}}

### Legacy syntax: rgba()

The legacy `rgba()` syntax is an alias for `rgb()`.

#### HTML

```html
<div class="rgb"></div>
<div class="rgba"></div>
```

#### CSS

```css
div {
  width: 100px;
  height: 50px;
  margin: 1rem;
}

div.rgb {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

div.rgba {
  background-color: rgba(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Legacy syntax: rgba()', '100%', '150px')}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

Commit message:

Unify the syntax format for CSS color functions (#26448)
* Unify format for `color()`

* Test fix

* Test fix

* Unify syntax for `device-cmyk()`

* Remove extra spaces for `color()`

* Unify syntax for `color-contrast()`

* Unify syntax for `hsl()`; remove self-pointing link

* Simplify

* Unifty syntax for `hwb()`

* Unify syntax for `lab()`

* Unify description for `hsl()`

* Remove extra space for `lab()`

* Unify syntax for `lch()`

* Unify syntax for `oklab()`

* Unify syntax for `oklch()`

* Unify syntax for `rgb()`; add "See also"

* Unify syntax for `color-mix()`

* Linting

* Add missing space for `device-cmyk()`

* Add missing space for `lab()`

* Add missing space for `lch()`

* Add missing space for `oklab()`

* Add missing space for `oklch()`

* Add missing space for `rgb()`

* Add details of normalization for `color-mix()`

* Add explanation to `color-mix()`

* Add explanation for literal token

* Add explanation for literal token

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

* Add details for `hwb()`

* List predefined color spaces for `color()`

* Clean up Level 5 remnants

---------

Co-authored-by: Brian Thomas Smith <brian@smith.berlin>

files/en-us/web/css/color_value/rgb/index.md, after:

---
title: rgb()
slug: Web/CSS/color_value/rgb
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.color.rgb
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`rgb()`** functional notation expresses a color according to its red, green, and blue components. An optional alpha component represents the color's transparency.

> **Note:** The legacy `rgba()` syntax is an alias for `rgb()`, accepting the same parameters and behaving in the same way.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/function-rgb.html")}}

## Syntax

```css
rgb(255 255 255)
rgb(255 255 255 / .5)
```

The function also accepts a legacy syntax in which all values are separated with commas.

### Values

Functional notation: `rgb(R G B[ / A])`

- `R`, `G`, `B`

  - : Each as a {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `255`, or a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none`, representing red, green, and blue channels, respectively. You can't mix percentages and numbers, so:

    - if any of these values is a number, then they must all be numbers or `none`
    - if any of these values is a percentage, then they must all be percentages or `none`.

- `A` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}}, where the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity).

### Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Legacy syntax: comma-separated values

For legacy reasons, the `rgb()` function accepts a form in which all values are separated using commas.

#### HTML

```html
<div class="space-separated"></div>
<div class="comma-separated"></div>
```

#### CSS

```css
div {
  width: 100px;
  height: 50px;
  margin: 1rem;
}

div.space-separated {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

div.comma-separated {
  background-color: rgb(255, 0, 0, 0.5);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Legacy syntax: comma-separated values', '100%', '150px')}}

### Legacy syntax: rgba()

The legacy `rgba()` syntax is an alias for `rgb()`.

#### HTML

```html
<div class="rgb"></div>
<div class="rgba"></div>
```

#### CSS

```css
div {
  width: 100px;
  height: 50px;
  margin: 1rem;
}

div.rgb {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

div.rgba {
  background-color: rgba(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Legacy syntax: rgba()', '100%', '150px')}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- The {{CSSXref("&lt;color&gt;")}} data type for a list of all color notations
