files/en-us/web/css/blend-mode/index.md, before:

---
title: <blend-mode>
slug: Web/CSS/blend-mode
page-type: css-type
tags:
  - Blend modes
  - CSS
  - CSS Data Type
  - Compositing
  - Compositing and Blending
  - Data Type
  - Reference
  - color
browser-compat: css.types.blend-mode
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`<blend-mode>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) describes how colors should appear when elements overlap. It is used in the {{cssxref("background-blend-mode")}} and {{cssxref("mix-blend-mode")}} properties.

## Syntax

The `<blend-mode>` data type is defined using a keyword value chosen from the list below.

### Values

- `normal`
  - : The final color is the top color, regardless of what the bottom color is.
    The effect is like two opaque pieces of paper overlapping.
- `multiply`
  - : The final color is the result of multiplying the top and bottom colors.
    A black layer leads to a black final layer, and a white layer leads to no change.
    The effect is like two images printed on transparent film overlapping.
- `screen`
  - : The final color is the result of inverting the colors, multiplying them, and inverting that value.
    A black layer leads to no change, and a white layer leads to a white final layer.
    The effect is like two images shone onto a projection screen.
- `overlay`
  - : The final color is the result of `multiply` if the bottom color is darker, or `screen` if the bottom color is lighter.
    This blend mode is equivalent to `hard-light` but with the layers swapped.
- `darken`
  - : The final color is composed of the darkest values of each color channel.
- `lighten`
  - : The final color is composed of the lightest values of each color channel.
- `color-dodge`
  - : The final color is the result of dividing the bottom color by the inverse of the top color.
    A black foreground leads to no change. A foreground with the inverse color of the backdrop leads to a fully lit color.
    This blend mode is similar to `screen`, but the foreground need only be as light as the inverse of the backdrop to create a fully lit color.
- `color-burn`
  - : The final color is the result of inverting the bottom color, dividing the value by the top color, and inverting that value.
    A white foreground leads to no change. A foreground with the inverse color of the backdrop leads to a black final image.
    This blend mode is similar to `multiply`, but the foreground need only be as dark as the inverse of the backdrop to make the final image black.
- `hard-light`
  - : The final color is the result of `multiply` if the top color is darker, or `screen` if the top color is lighter.
    This blend mode is equivalent to `overlay` but with the layers swapped.
    The effect is similar to shining a _harsh_ spotlight on the backdrop.
- `soft-light`
  - : The final color is similar to `hard-light`, but softer.
    This blend mode behaves similar to `hard-light`.
    The effect is similar to shining a _diffused_ spotlight on the backdrop*.*
- `difference`
  - : The final color is the result of subtracting the darker of the two colors from the lighter one.
    A black layer has no effect, while a white layer inverts the other layer's color.
- `exclusion`
  - : The final color is similar to `difference`, but with less contrast.
    As with `difference`, a black layer has no effect, while a white layer inverts the other layer's color.
- `hue`
  - : The final color has the _hue_ of the top color, while using the _saturation_ and _luminosity_ of the bottom color.
- `saturation`
  - : The final color has the _saturation_ of the top color, while using the _hue_ and _luminosity_ of the bottom color.
    A pure gray backdrop, having no saturation, will have no effect.
- `color`
  - : The final color has the _hue_ and _saturation_ of the top color, while using the _luminosity_ of the bottom color.
    The effect preserves gray levels and can be used to colorize the foreground.
- `luminosity`
  - : The final color has the _luminosity_ of the top color, while using the _hue_ and _saturation_ of the bottom color.
    This blend mode is equivalent to `color`, but with the layers swapped.

## Description

For each pixel among the layers to which it is applied, a blend mode takes the colors of the foreground and the background, performs a calculation on them, and returns a new color value.

Changes between blend modes are not interpolated. Any change occurs immediately.

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Example using "normal"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: normal;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "normal"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "multiply"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: multiply;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "multiply"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "screen"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: screen;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "screen"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "overlay"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: overlay;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "overlay"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "darken"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: darken;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "darken"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "lighten"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: lighten;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "lighten"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "color-dodge"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: color-dodge;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "color-dodge"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "color-burn"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: color-burn;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "color-burn"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "hard-light"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: hard-light;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "hard-light"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "soft-light"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: soft-light;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "soft-light"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "difference"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: difference;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "difference"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "exclusion"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: exclusion;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "exclusion"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "hue"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: hue;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "hue"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "saturation"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: saturation;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "saturation"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "color"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: color;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "color"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "luminosity"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: luminosity;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "luminosity"', "300", "350") }}

### Blend mode comparison

In the following example, we have a `<div>` with two background images set on it — a Firefox logo on top of a linear gradient. Below it, we have a provided a `<select>` menu that allows you to change the `background-blend-mode` applied to the `<div>`, allowing you to compare the different blend mode effects.

#### HTML

```html
<div></div>
<p>Choose a blend-mode:</p>
<select>
  <option selected>normal</option>
  <option>multiply</option>
  <option>screen</option>
  <option>overlay</option>
  <option>darken</option>
  <option>lighten</option>
  <option>color-dodge</option>
  <option>color-burn</option>
  <option>hard-light</option>
  <option>soft-light</option>
  <option>difference</option>
  <option>exclusion</option>
  <option>hue</option>
  <option>saturation</option>
  <option>color</option>
  <option>luminosity</option>
</select>
```

#### CSS

```css
div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url(https://media.prod.mdn.mozit.cloud/attachments/2020/07/29/17350/3b4892b7e820122ac6dd7678891d4507/firefox.png)
      no-repeat center, linear-gradient(to bottom, blue, orange);
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js
const selectElem = document.querySelector("select");
const divElem = document.querySelector("div");

selectElem.addEventListener("change", () => {
  divElem.style.backgroundBlendMode = selectElem.value;
});
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Blend_mode_comparison', '100%', 400)}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- Properties that use this data type: {{cssxref("background-blend-mode")}}, {{cssxref("mix-blend-mode")}}

Description to various blend modes on other website:

- [Blend modes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blend_modes) on Wikipedia
- [Blending modes in Adobe Photoshop](https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/blending-modes.html) by Adobe

Commit message:

See also: link to module page (#24325)

files/en-us/web/css/blend-mode/index.md, after:

---
title: <blend-mode>
slug: Web/CSS/blend-mode
page-type: css-type
tags:
  - Blend modes
  - CSS
  - CSS Data Type
  - Compositing
  - Compositing and Blending
  - Data Type
  - Reference
  - color
browser-compat: css.types.blend-mode
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`<blend-mode>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) describes how colors should appear when elements overlap. It is used in the {{cssxref("background-blend-mode")}} and {{cssxref("mix-blend-mode")}} properties.

## Syntax

The `<blend-mode>` data type is defined using a keyword value chosen from the list below.

### Values

- `normal`
  - : The final color is the top color, regardless of what the bottom color is.
    The effect is like two opaque pieces of paper overlapping.
- `multiply`
  - : The final color is the result of multiplying the top and bottom colors.
    A black layer leads to a black final layer, and a white layer leads to no change.
    The effect is like two images printed on transparent film overlapping.
- `screen`
  - : The final color is the result of inverting the colors, multiplying them, and inverting that value.
    A black layer leads to no change, and a white layer leads to a white final layer.
    The effect is like two images shone onto a projection screen.
- `overlay`
  - : The final color is the result of `multiply` if the bottom color is darker, or `screen` if the bottom color is lighter.
    This blend mode is equivalent to `hard-light` but with the layers swapped.
- `darken`
  - : The final color is composed of the darkest values of each color channel.
- `lighten`
  - : The final color is composed of the lightest values of each color channel.
- `color-dodge`
  - : The final color is the result of dividing the bottom color by the inverse of the top color.
    A black foreground leads to no change. A foreground with the inverse color of the backdrop leads to a fully lit color.
    This blend mode is similar to `screen`, but the foreground need only be as light as the inverse of the backdrop to create a fully lit color.
- `color-burn`
  - : The final color is the result of inverting the bottom color, dividing the value by the top color, and inverting that value.
    A white foreground leads to no change. A foreground with the inverse color of the backdrop leads to a black final image.
    This blend mode is similar to `multiply`, but the foreground need only be as dark as the inverse of the backdrop to make the final image black.
- `hard-light`
  - : The final color is the result of `multiply` if the top color is darker, or `screen` if the top color is lighter.
    This blend mode is equivalent to `overlay` but with the layers swapped.
    The effect is similar to shining a _harsh_ spotlight on the backdrop.
- `soft-light`
  - : The final color is similar to `hard-light`, but softer.
    This blend mode behaves similar to `hard-light`.
    The effect is similar to shining a _diffused_ spotlight on the backdrop*.*
- `difference`
  - : The final color is the result of subtracting the darker of the two colors from the lighter one.
    A black layer has no effect, while a white layer inverts the other layer's color.
- `exclusion`
  - : The final color is similar to `difference`, but with less contrast.
    As with `difference`, a black layer has no effect, while a white layer inverts the other layer's color.
- `hue`
  - : The final color has the _hue_ of the top color, while using the _saturation_ and _luminosity_ of the bottom color.
- `saturation`
  - : The final color has the _saturation_ of the top color, while using the _hue_ and _luminosity_ of the bottom color.
    A pure gray backdrop, having no saturation, will have no effect.
- `color`
  - : The final color has the _hue_ and _saturation_ of the top color, while using the _luminosity_ of the bottom color.
    The effect preserves gray levels and can be used to colorize the foreground.
- `luminosity`
  - : The final color has the _luminosity_ of the top color, while using the _hue_ and _saturation_ of the bottom color.
    This blend mode is equivalent to `color`, but with the layers swapped.

## Description

For each pixel among the layers to which it is applied, a blend mode takes the colors of the foreground and the background, performs a calculation on them, and returns a new color value.

Changes between blend modes are not interpolated. Any change occurs immediately.

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Example using "normal"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: normal;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "normal"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "multiply"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: multiply;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "multiply"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "screen"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: screen;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "screen"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "overlay"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: overlay;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "overlay"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "darken"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: darken;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "darken"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "lighten"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: lighten;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "lighten"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "color-dodge"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: color-dodge;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "color-dodge"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "color-burn"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: color-burn;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "color-burn"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "hard-light"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: hard-light;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "hard-light"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "soft-light"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: soft-light;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "soft-light"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "difference"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: difference;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "difference"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "exclusion"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: exclusion;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "exclusion"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "hue"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: hue;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "hue"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "saturation"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: saturation;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "saturation"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "color"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: color;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "color"', "300", "350") }}

### Example using "luminosity"

```html hidden
<div id="div"></div>
```

```css
#div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url("br.png"), url("tr.png");
  background-blend-mode: luminosity;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example using "luminosity"', "300", "350") }}

### Blend mode comparison

In the following example, we have a `<div>` with two background images set on it — a Firefox logo on top of a linear gradient. Below it, we have a provided a `<select>` menu that allows you to change the `background-blend-mode` applied to the `<div>`, allowing you to compare the different blend mode effects.

#### HTML

```html
<div></div>
<p>Choose a blend-mode:</p>
<select>
  <option selected>normal</option>
  <option>multiply</option>
  <option>screen</option>
  <option>overlay</option>
  <option>darken</option>
  <option>lighten</option>
  <option>color-dodge</option>
  <option>color-burn</option>
  <option>hard-light</option>
  <option>soft-light</option>
  <option>difference</option>
  <option>exclusion</option>
  <option>hue</option>
  <option>saturation</option>
  <option>color</option>
  <option>luminosity</option>
</select>
```

#### CSS

```css
div {
  width: 300px;
  height: 300px;
  background: url(https://media.prod.mdn.mozit.cloud/attachments/2020/07/29/17350/3b4892b7e820122ac6dd7678891d4507/firefox.png)
      no-repeat center, linear-gradient(to bottom, blue, orange);
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js
const selectElem = document.querySelector("select");
const divElem = document.querySelector("div");

selectElem.addEventListener("change", () => {
  divElem.style.backgroundBlendMode = selectElem.value;
});
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Blend_mode_comparison', '100%', 400)}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- The [CSS compositing and blending](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Compositing_and_Blending) module that defines the `<blend-mode>` values.
- Properties that use this data type: {{cssxref("background-blend-mode")}}, {{cssxref("mix-blend-mode")}}

Description to various blend modes on other website:

- [Blend modes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blend_modes) on Wikipedia
- [Blending modes in Adobe Photoshop](https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/blending-modes.html) by Adobe
